formate assay in body fluids : application in methanol poisoning .
delineation of the intimate details of the backbone conformation of pyridine nucleotide coenzymes in aqueous solution .
metal substitutions incarbonic anhydrase : a halide ion probe study .
effect of chloroquine on cultured fibroblasts : release of lysosomal hydrolases and inhibition of their uptake .
atomic models for the polypeptide backbones of myohemerythrin and hemerythrin .
studies of oxygen binding energy to hemoglobin molecule .
maturation of the adrenal medulla -- iv .
effects of morphine .
comparison between procaine and isocarboxazid metabolism in vitro by a liver microsomal amidase-esterase .
radiochemical assay of glutathione s-epoxide transferase and its enhancement by phenobarbital in rat liver in vivo .
digitoxin metabolism by rat liver microsomes .
identification of adenylate cyclase-coupled beta-adrenergic receptors with radiolabeled beta-adrenergic antagonists .
the effect of adrenaline and of alpha- and beta-adrenergic blocking agents on atp concentration and on incorporation of 32pi into atp in rat fat cells .
action of propranolol on mitochondrial functions -- effects on energized ion fluxes in the presence of valinomycin .
malathion a and b esterases of mouse liver-i .
increase in acetyl coa synthetase activity after phenobarbital treatment .
inhibition of aldehyde reductase by acidic metabolites of the biogenic amines .
effects of 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine on tyrosine-hydroxylase activity in central catecholaminergic neurons of the rat .
inhibition of aldehyde reductase isoenzymes in human and rat brain .
antidepressant drugs affect dopamine uptake .
aggregation of blood platelets by adrenaline and its uptake .
[ biochemical studies on camomile components/iii. in vitro studies about the antipeptic activity of ( -- ) -alpha-bisabolol ( author's transl ) ] .
( -- ) -alpha-bisabolol has a primary antipeptic action depending on dosage , which is not caused by an alteration of the ph-value .
the proteolytic activity of pepsin is reduced by 50 percent through addition of bisabolol in the ratio of 1/0.5 .
the antipeptic action of bisabolol only occurs in case of direct contact .
in case of a previous contact with the substrate , the inhibiting effect is lost .
[ demonstration of tumor inhibiting properties of a strongly immunostimulating low-molecular weight substance. comparative studies with ifosfamide on the immuno-labile ds carcinosarcoma. stimulation of the autoimmune activity for approx. 20 days by ba 1 , a n- ( 2-cyanoethylene ) -urea. novel prophylactic possibilities ] .
a report is given on the recent discovery of outstanding immunological properties in ba 1 [ n- ( 2-cyanoethylene ) -urea ] having a ( low ) molecular mass m = 111.104 .
experiments in 214 ds carcinosarcoma bearing wistar rats have shown that ba 1 , at a dosage of only about 12 percent ld50 ( 150 mg kg ) and negligible lethality ( 1.7 percent ) , results in a recovery rate of 40 percent without hyperglycemia and , in one test , of 80 percent with hyperglycemia .
under otherwise unchanged conditions the reference substance ifosfamide ( if ) -- a further development of cyclophosphamide -- applied without hyperglycemia in its most efficient dosage of 47 percent ld50 ( 150 mg kg ) brought about a recovery rate of 25 percent at a lethality of 18 percent .
( contrary to ba 1 , 250-min hyperglycemia caused no further improvement of the recovery rate. ) however this comparison is characterized by the fact that both substances exhibit two quite different ( complementary ) mechanisms of action .
leucocyte counts made after application of the said cancerostatics and dosages have shown a pronounced stimulation with ba 1 and with ifosfamide , the known suppression in the post-therapeutic interval usually found with standard cancerostatics .
in combination with the cited plaque test for ba 1 , blood pictures then allow conclusions on the immunity status .
since if can be taken as one of the most efficient cancerostatics -- there is no other chemotherapeutic known up to now that has a more significant effect on the ds carcinosarcoma in rats -- these findings are of special importance .
finally , the total amount of leucocytes and lymphocytes as well as their time behaviour was determined from the blood picture of tumour-free rats after i.v. application of ba 1 .
the thus obtained numerical values clearly show that further research work on the prophylactic use of this substance seems to be necessary and very promising .
effect of etafenone on total and regional myocardial blood flow .
the distribution of blood flow to the subendocardial , medium and subepicardial layers of the left ventricular free wall was studied in anaesthetized dogs under normoxic ( a ) , hypoxic ( b ) conditions and under pharmacologically induced ( etafenone ) coronary vasodilation ( c ) .
regional myocardial blood flow was determined by means of the particle distribution method .
in normoxia a transmural gradient of flow was observed , with the subendocardial layers receiving a significantly higher flow rate compared with the subepicardial layers .
in hypoxia induced vasodilation this transmural gradient of flow was persistent .
in contrast a marked redistribution of regional flow was observed under pharmacologically induced vasodilation .
the transmural gradient decreased .
in contrast to some findings these experiments demonstrate that a considerable vasodilatory capacity exists in all layers of the myocardium and can be utilized by drugs .
the differences observed for the intramural distribution pattern of flow under hypoxia and drug induced vasodilation support the hypothesis that this pattern reflects corresponding gradients of regional myocardial metabolism .
influence of a new virostatic compound on the induction of enzymes in rat liver .
the virostatic compound n , n-diethyl-4- [ 2- ( 2-oxo-3-tetradecyl-1-imidazolidinyl ) -ethyl ] -1-piperazinecarboxamide-hydrochloride ( 5531 ) was analyzed as to its effect on the induction of tryptophan-pyrrolase and tyrosineaminotransferase in rat liver .
1. the basic activity of the enzymes was not influenced by the substance either in normal or in adrenalectomized animals .
2. the induction of the enzymes by cortisone increased in the presence of the compound whereas the substrate induction remained unchanged .
3. the induction of tyrosine-aminotransferase by dexamethasonephosphate in tissue culture is inhibited if the dose of compound 5531 is higher than 5 mug/ml .
pharmacological properties of new neuroleptic compounds .
rmi 61 140 , rmi 61 144 and rmi 61 280 are newly synthetized n- [ 8-r-dibenzo ( b , f ) oxepin-10-yl ] -n'-methyl-piperazine-maleates which show interesting psychopharmacologic effects .
this work contains the results of a study performed with these three compounds , in order to demonstrate their neuropsycholeptic activity in comparison with chloropromazine ( cpz ) and chlordiazepoxide ( cpd ) .
the inhibition of motility observed in mice shows that the compounds reduce the normal spontaneous motility as well as the muscle tone .
the central-depressant activity is evidenced by increased barbiturate-induced sleep and a remarkable eyelid ptosis can also be observed .
our compounds do not show any activity on electroshock just as do cpz and cpd .
as to the antipsychotic outline , our compounds show strong reduction of lethality due to amphetamine in grouped mice and a strong antiapomorphine activity .
they show also an antiaggressive effect and an inhibitory activity on avoidance behaviour much stronger than cpz .
we have also found extrapyramidal effects , as catalepsy , common to many tranquillizers of the kind of the standards used by us .
as for vegetative phenomena , the compounds show hypotensive dose related action ranging from moderate to strong , probably due to an a-receptor inhibition .
adrenolytic activity against lethal doses of adrenaline , antiserotonin and antihistaminic effects , as well as other actions ( hypothermia , analgesia , etc. ) confirm that rmi 61 140 , rmi 61 144 and rmi 61 280 are endowed with pharmacologic properties similar and more potent than those of cpz .
studies on the metabolism of brain catecholamines show that they are similar to cpz , although with less effect on dopamine level .
[ studies on the action of an anticholinergic agent in combination with a tranquilizer on gastric juice secretion in man ] .
a double-blind study with intra-individual comparisons was carried out to investigate the effects of 15 mg of ( 8r ) -3alpha-hydroxy-8-isopropyl-1alphah-tropanium bromide ( +/- ) -tropate ( sch 1000 ) , 15 mg sch 1000 + 10 mg oxazepam , 10 mg oxazepam and placebo with oral administration in randomized sequence on gastric juice volume , amount of acid , concentration and ph values in 12 healthy volunteers .
the secretion parameters were measured during a 1-h basal period and a 2-h stimulation period .
the gastric juice was obtained in 15 min portions via stomach tube .
stimulation was effected by 1 mug/kg/h pentagastrin via drip infusion .
the friedman test was used for the comparative statistical evaluation , and individual comparisons were carried out by means of the wilcoxon test ( pair-differences rank ) .
the results show that sch 1000 and sch 1000 + oxazepam were equal in effect on basal and stimulated secretion volume .
as compared with placebo , it was not possible to establish an effect on secretion volume for oxazepam alone .
sch 1000 and sch 1000 + oxazepam were found to be equipotent in reducing the amount of basal acid , while oxazepam reduced this quantity only during the first 30 min of basal secretion .
none of the three active preparations was capable of inhibiting the stimulated acid , although both sch 1000 preparations produced a clear trend towards lowered mean values .
during the basal secretion period , all three test preparations had an inhibiting action on acid concentration , but none of them had a significant effect during the stimulation period .
the ph value was savely increased only by sch 1000 and sch 1000 + oxazepam , and this even only during the basal period .
the results are discussed .
editorial : `` old lamps for new '' .
letter : duration of action of ah8165 .
lorazepam in sexual disorders .
lysosomal hydrolases of the epidermis .
i. glycosidases .
seven distinct glycosidases ( ec 3.2 ) have been characterized in guinea-pig epidermis .
their properties indicate them to be of lysosomal origin .
the 'profile ' of the epidermal glycosidases is significantly different from that reported for whole skin , the activities of beta-galactosidase and beta-acetylglucosaminidase being very high and those of the remaining enzymes relatively low in epidermis .
lysosomal hydrolases of the epidermis .
2. ester hydrolases .
five distinct ester hydrolases ( ec 3-1 ) have been characterized in guinea-pig epidermis .
these are carboxylic esterase , acid phosphatase , pyrophosphatase , and arylsulphatase a and b .
their properties are consistent with those of lysosomal enzymes .
a serum haemagglutinating property dependent upon polycarboxyl groups .
a serum agglutinin reactive with red cells in the presence of polycarboxyl groups is reported .
it is likely that this represents an additional example of the type of agglutinin previously described as agglutinating red cells in the absence of ionized calcium .
experimental evidence is presented indicating that it is free polycarboxyl groups that potentiate agglutination and that any metal ion , such as calcium , capable of chelating with these groups will prove to be inhibitory .
effect of human erythrocyte stromata on complement activation .
stroma from either normal or pnh-like red cells is capable of inhibiting , to some extent , lysis in the sucrose test and enhancing lysis in the acidified-serum test .
the same opposing effects are displayed by the exclusion peaks from sephadex g-200 obtained from each stroma preparation , suggesting that the same factor could be responsible for both activities .
stromata and peaks also induce lysis of pnh-like cells in unacidified serum , indicating activation of complement through the alternate pathway .
this is confirmed by immunoelectrophoretic observation .
when serum previously activated through the alternate pathway is used in the sucrose test the amount of lysis is markedly reduced .
this would indicate that the classical pathway activation can be controlled by the alternate pathway .
the possible clinical significance of these factors in determining the haemolytic crisis in pnh patients is discussed .
determinants of intracellular ph in the erythrocyte .
the effect of o-salicylate upon pentose phosphate pathway activity in normal and g6pd-deficient red cells .
the effect of the major metabolite of aspirin , namely salicylic acid , upon the pentose phosphate pathway ( ppp ) of normal and g6pd-deficient red cells has been studied .
salicylic acid was shown to inhibit this pathway in proportion to the amount present .
at any concentration of this substance there was greater inhibition of the ppp in g6pd-deficient than in normal red cells .
the effects of processing of barley-based supplements on rumen ph , rate of digestion of voluntary intake of dried grass in sheep .
1. in one experiment the effect on rumen ph of feeding with restricted amounts of whole or pelleted barley was studied .
with whole barley there was little variation in rumen ph associated with feeding time , but with pelleted barley the ph decreased from about 7-0 before feeding to about 5-3 , 2 -- 3 h after feeding .
2. the rate of disappearance of dried grass during incubation in the rumens of sheep receiving either whole or pelleted barley was studied in a second experiment .
after 24 h incubation only 423 mg/g incubated had disappeared in the rumen of sheep receiving pelleted barley while 625 mg/g incubated had disappeared when it was incubated in the rumen of sheep receiving whole barley .
3. the voluntary intake of dried grass of lambs was studied in a third experiment when they received supplements of either 25 or 50 g whole or pelleted barley/kg live weight 0-75 .
at the high level , pelleted barley reduced intake of dried grass by 534 g/kg but whole barley reduced it by only 352 g/kg .
the digestibility of acid-detergent fibre was reduced more by pelleted barley than by whole barley but there was a tendency for a small increase in digestibility of the barley due to processing .
4. the implications of these findings on supplementation of roughages with cereals are discussed .
poly ( 8-aminoguanylic acid ) : formation of ordered self-structures and interaction with poly ( cytidylic acid ) .
poly ( 8-aminoguanylic acid ) has in neutral solution a novel ordered structure of high stability .
the 8-amino group permits formation of three hydrogen bonds between two residues along the `` top '' , or long axis , of the purines .
the usual hydrogen bonding protons and watson-crick pairing sites are not involved in the association .
the bonding scheme has a twofold rotation axis and is hemiprotonated at n ( 7 ) .
poly ( 8nh2g ) is converted by alkaline titration ( pk = 9.7 ) to a quite different ordered structure , which is the favored form over the range approximately ph 10-11 .
the bonding scheme appears to be composed of a planar , tetrameric array of guanine residues , in which the 8-amino group does not participate in interbase hydrogen bonding .
poly ( 8nh2g ) does not interact with poly ( c ) in neutral solution because of the high stability of the hemiprotonated g-g self-structure .
titration to the alkaline plateau , however , permits ready formation of a two-stranded watson-crick helix .
in contrast to the monomer 8nh2gmp , poly ( 8nh2g ) does not form a triple helix with poly ( c ) under any conditions .
the properties of the ordered structures are interpreted in terms of a strong tendency of the 8-amino group to form a third interbase hydrogen bond , when this possibility is not prevented by high ph .
effect of ph on substrate and inhibitor kinetic constants of human liver alanine aminopeptidase .
evidence for two ionizable active center groups .
the presence of at least two ionizable active center groups has been detected by a study of the effect of ph upon catalysis of hydrolysis of l-alanyl-beta-naphthylamide by human liver alanine aminopeptidase and upon the inhibition of hydrolysis by inhibitors and substrate analogs .
octanoic acid , octylamine , and peptide inhibitors have been found to be competitive inhibitors and are therefore thought to bind the active center .
l-phe was previously shown to bind the active center since it was found to be a competitive inhibitor of the hydrolysis of tripeptide substrates ( garner , c. w. , and behal , f. j. ( 1975 ) , biochemistry 14 , 3208 ) .
a plot of pkm vs. ph for the substrate l-ala-beta-naphthylamide showed that binding decreased below ph 5.9 and above 7.5 , the points at which the theoretical curve undergoes an integral change in slope .
these points are interpreted as the pka either of substrate ionizable groups or binding-dependent enzyme active center groups .
similar plots of pkm vs. ph for l-alanyl-p-nitroanilide ( as substrate ) and pki vs. ph for l-leu-l-leu-l-leu and d-leu-l-tyr ( as inhibitors ) gave pairs fo pka values of 5.8 and 7.4 , 6.0 and 7.5 , and 5.7 and 7.5 , respectively .
all the above substrates ( and d-leu-l-tyr ) have pka values near 7.5 ; therefore , the binding-dependent group with a pka value near 7.5 is possibly this substrate group .
similar plots of pki vs. ph for the inhibitors l-phe , l-met , l-leu , octylamine , and octanoic acid had only one bending point at 7.7 , 7.6 , 7.4 , 6.3 , and 5.9 , respectively .
amino acid inhibitors , octylamine , and octanoic acid have no groups with pka values between 5 and 9 .
these data indicate that there are two active center ionizable groups with pka values of approximately 6.0 and 7.5 which are involved in substrate binding or inhibitory amino acid binding but not in catalysis since vmax was constant at all ph values tested .
formation of transient complexes in the glutamate dehydrogenase catalyzed reaction .
the reaction of glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamate ( gl ) with nad+ and nadp+ has been studied with stopped-flow techniques .
the enzyme was in all experiments present in excess of the coenzyme .
the results indicate that the ternary complex ( e-nad ( p ) h-kg ) is present as an intermediate in the formation of the stable complex ( e-nad ( p ) h-gl ) .
the identification of the complexes is based on their absorption spectra .
the binding of the coenzyme to ( e-gl ) is the rate-limiting step in the formation of ( e-nad ( p ) h-kg ) while the dissociation of alpha-ketoglutarate ( kg ) from this complex is the rate-limiting step in the formation of ( e-nad ( p ) h-gl ) .
the km for glutamate was 20-25 mm in the first reaction and 3 mm in the formation of the stable complex .
the km values were independent of the coenzyme .
the reaction rates with nad+ were approximately 50 % greater than those with nadp+ .
furthermore , high glutamate concentration inhibited the formation of ( e-nadh-kg ) while no substrate inhibition was found with nadp+ as coenzyme .
adp enhanced while gtp reduced the rate of ( e-nad ( p ) h-gl ) formation .
the rate of formation of ( e-nad ( p ) h-kg ) was inhibited by adp , while it increased at high glutamate concentration when small amounts of gtp were added .
the results show that the higher activity found with nad+ compared to nadp+ under steady-state assay conditions do not necessarily involve binding of nad+ to the adp activating site of the enzyme .
moreover , the substrate inhibition found at high glutamate concentration under steady-state assay condition is not due to the formation of ( e-nad ( p ) h-gl ) as this complex is formed with km of 3 mm glutamate , and the substrate inhibition is only significant at 20-30 times this concentration .
human brain and placental choline acetyltransferase : purification and properties .
choline acetyltransferase ( ec 2.3.1.6 ) catalyzes the biosynthesis of acetylcholine according to the following chemical equation : acetyl-coa + choline in equilibrium to acetylcholine + coa .
in addition to nervous tissue , primate placenta is the only other animal source which contains appreciable acetylcholine and its biosynthetic enzyme .
human brain caudate nucleus and human placental choline acetyltransferase were purified to electrophoretic homogeneity using ion-exchange and blue dextran-sepharose affinity chromatography .
the molecular weights determined by sephadex g-150 gel filtration and sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis are 67000 plus or minus 3000 .
n-ethylmaleimide , p-chloromercuribenzoate , and dithiobis ( 2-nitrobenzoic acid ) inhibit the enzyme .
dithiothreitol reverses the inhibition produced by the latter two reagents .
the pka of the group associated with n-ethylmaleimide inhibition is 8.6 plus or minus 0.3 .
a chemically competent acetyl-thioenzyme is isolable by sephadex gel filtration .
the enzymes from the brain and placenta are thus far physically and biochemically indistinguishable .
stabilization of the globular structure of ferricytochrome c by chloride in acidic solvents .
increasing concentrations of chloride were found to increase the resolution between two visible absorbance spectral transitions associated with acidification of ferricytochrome c .
analysis of a variety of spectral and viscosity measurements indicates that protonation of a single group having an apparent pk of 2.1 +/- 0.2 and an intrinsic pk of about 5.3 displaces the methionine ligand without significantly perturbing the native globular conformation .
analysis of methylated ferricytochrome c suggests that protonation of a carboxylate ion , most likely a heme propionate residue , is responsible for displacement of the methionine ligand .
addition of a proton to a second group having an apparent pk of 1.2 +/- 0.1 displaces the histidine ligand and unfolds the protein from a globular conformation into a random coil .
it is most likely that the second protonation occurs on the imidazole ring of the histidine ligand itself .
chloride is proposed to perturb these transitions by ligation in the fifth coordination position of the heme ion .
such ligation stabilizes a globular conformation of ferricytochrome c at ph 0.0 and 25 degrees .
a competitive labeling method for the determination of the chemical properties of solitary functional groups in proteins .
the properties of the functional groups in a protein can be used as built-in-probes of the structure of the protein .
we have developed a general procedure whereby the ionization constant and chemical reactivity of solitary functional groups in proteins may be determined .
the method may be applied to the side chain of histidine , tyrosine , lysine , and cysteine , as well as to the amino terminus of the protein .
the method , which is an extension of the competitive labeling technique using [ 3h ] - and [ 14c ] 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene ( n2ph-f ) in a double-labeling procedure , is rapid and sensitive .
advantage is taken of the fact that after acid hydrolysis of a dinitrophenylated protein , a derivative is obtained which must be derived from a unique position in the protein .
the method has been applied to the solitary histidine residue of lysozyme , alpha-lytic protease , and streptomyces griseus ( s.g. ) trypsin , as well as to the amino terminus of the latter protein .
the following parameters were obtained for reaction with n2ph-f at 20 degrees c in 0.1 n kcl : the histidine of hen egg-white lysozyme , pka of 6.4 and second-order velocity constant of 0.188 m-1 min-1 ; the histidine of alpha-lytic protease , pka of 6.5 and second-order velocity constant of 0.0235 m-1 min-1 ; the histidine of s.g. trypsin , pka of 6.5 and second-order velocity constant of 0.0328 m-1 min-1 ; the valyl amino terminus of s.g. trypsin , pka of 8.1 and second-order velocity constant of 0.403 m-1 min-1 .
in addition , the results obtained provide clues as to the microenvironments of these functional groups , and indicate that the proteins studied undergo ph-dependent conformational changes which affect the microenvironment , and hence the chemical reactivity of these groups .
modification of arginine and lysine in proteins with 2,4-pentanedione .
primary amines react with 2,4-pentanedione at ph 6-9 to form enamines , n-alkyl-4-amino-3-penten-2-ones .
the latter compounds readily regenerate the primary amine at low ph or on treatment with hydroxylamine .
guanidine and substituted guanidines react with 2,4-pentanedione to form n-substituted 2-amino-4,6-dimethylpyrimidines at a rate which is lower by at least a factor of 20 than the rate of reaction of 2,4-pentanedione with primary amines .
selective modification of lysine and arginine side chains in proteins can readily be achieved with 2,4-pentanedione .
modification of lysine is favored by reaction at ph 7 or for short reaction times at ph 9 .
selective modification of arginine is achieved by reaction with 2,4-pentanedione for long times at ph 9 , followed by treatment of the protein with hydroxylamine .
the extent of modification of lysine and arginine side chains can readily be measured spectrophotometrically .
modification of lysozyme with 2,4-pentanedione at ph 7 results in modification of 3.8 lysine residues and less than 0.4 arginine residue in 24 hr .
modification of lysozyme with 2,4-pentanedione at ph 9 results in modification of 4 lysine residues and 4.5 arginine residues in 100 hr .
treatment of this modified protein with hydroxylamine regenerated the modified lysine residues but caused no change in the modified arginine residues .
one arginine residue seems to be essential for the catalytic activity of the enzyme .
the origin of the alkaline inactivation of pepsinogen .
above ph 8.5 , pepsinogen is converted into a form which can not be activated to pepsin on exposure to low ph .
intermediate exposure to neutral ph , however , returns the protein to a form which can be activated .
evidence is presented for a reversible , small conformational change in the molecule , distinct from the unfolding of the protein .
at the same time , the molecule is converted to a form of limited solubility , which is precipitated at low ph , where activation is normally seen .
the results are interpreted in terms of the peculiar structure of the pepsinogen molecule .
titration of the basic nh2-terminal region produced an open form , which can return to the native form at neutral ph , but which is maintained at low ph by neutralization of carboxylate groups in the pepsin portion .
bovine liver dihydrofolate reductase : purification and properties of the enzyme .
a purification procedure is reported for obtaining bovine liver dihydrofolate reductase in high yield and amounts of 100-200 mg .
a key step in the procedure is the use of an affinity gel prepared by coupling pteroyl-l-lysine to sepharose .
the purified reductase has a specific activity of about 100 units/mg and is homogeneous as judged by analytical ultracentrifugation , polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis , and titration with methotrexate .
the products of the first step of edman degradation indicated a minimum purity of 79 % .
the reductase has a molecular weight of about 21500 on the basis of amino acid composition and 22100 +/- 300 from equilibrium sedimentation .
it is not inhibited by antiserum to the streptococcus faecium reductase ( isoenzyme 2 ) .
unlike the reductase of many other vertebrate tissues , the bovine enzyme is inhibited by mercurials rather than activated and it has a single ph optimum at both low and high ionic strength .
however , the position of the ph optimum is shifted and the activity increased by increasing ionic strength .
automatic edman degradation has been used to determine 34 of the amino-terminal 37 amino acid residues .
considerable homology exists between this region and the corresponding regions of the reductase from s. faecium and from escherichia coli .
this strengthens the idea that this region contributes to the structure of the binding site for dihydrofolate .
purification and properties of escherichia coli dihydrofolate reductase .
dihydrofolate reductase has been purified 40-fold to apparent homogeneity from a trimethoprim-resistant strain of escherichia coli ( rt 500 ) using a procedure that includes methotrexate affinity column chromatography .
determinations of the molecular weight of the enzyme based on its amino acid composition , sedimentation velocity , and sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis gave values of 17680 , 17470 and 18300 , respectively .
an aggregated form of the enzyme with a low specific activity can be separated from the monomer by gel filtration ; treatment of the aggregate with mercaptoethanol or dithiothreitol results in an increase in enzymic activity and a regeneration of the monomer .
also , multiple molecular forms of the monomer have been detected by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
the unresolved enzyme exhibits two ph optima ( ph 4.5 and ph 7.0 ) with dihydrofolate as a substrate .
highest activities are observed in buffers containing large organic cations .
in 100 mm imidazolium chloride ( ph 7 ) , the specific activity is 47 mumol of dihydrofolate reduced per min per mg at 30 degrees .
folic acid also serves as a substrate with a single ph optimum of ph 4.5 .
at this ph the km for folate is 16 mum , and the vmax is 1/1000 of the rate observed with dihydrofolate as the substrate .
monovalent cations ( na+ , k+ , rb+ , and cs+ ) inhibit dihydrofolate reductase ; at a given ionic strength the degree of inhibition is a function of the ionic radius of the cation .
divalent cations are more potent inhibitors ; the i50 of bacl2 is 250 mum , as compared to 125 mm for kcl .
anions neither inhibit nor activate the enzyme .
the influence of ph on the interaction of inhibitors with triosephosphate isomerase and determination of the pka of the active-site carboxyl group .
ionization effects on the binding of the potential transition state analogues 2-phosphoglycolate and 2-phosphoglycolohydroxamate appear to be attributable to the changing state of ionization of the ligands themselves , therefore it is unnecessary to postulate the additional involvement of an ionizing residue at the active site of triosephosphate isomerase to explain the influence of changing ph on ki in the neutral range .
the binding of the competitive inhibitor inorganic sulfate is insensitive to changing ph in the neutral range .
3-chloroacetol sulfate , synthesized as an active-site-specific reagent for triosephosphate isomerase , is used to provide an indication of the pka of the essential carboxyl group of this enzyme .
previously described active-site-specific reagents for the isomerase were phosphate esters , and their changing state of ionization ( accompanied by possible changes in their affinity for the active site ) may have complicated earlier attempts to determine the pka of the essential carboxyl group from the ph dependence of the rate of inactivation .
being a strong monoprotic acid , chloroacetol sulfate is better suited to the determination of the pka of the carboxyl group .
chloroacetol sulfate inactivates triosephosphate isomerase by the selective esterification of the same carboxyl group as that which is esterified by the phosphate esters described earlier .
from the ph dependence of the rate of inactivation of yeast triosephosphate isomerase , the apparent pka of the active-site carboxyl group is estimated as 3.9 +/- 0.1 .
monoanion inhibition and 35cl nuclear magnetic resonance studies of renal dipeptidase .
kinetic analyses of monoanion inhibition and 15cl nuclear magnetic resonance at 5.88 mhz were employed to study monoanion interactions with the zinc metalloenzyme , renal dipeptidase .
the enzyme-catalyzed hydrolysis of glycyldehydrophenylalanine exhibited competitive inhibition when the reaction rate was determined in the presence of the monovalent anions fluoride , chloride , bromide , iodide , azide , nitrate , or thiocyanate or upon the addition of the divalent anion , sulfate .
competitive inhibition was produced by these anions .
one anion was bound per enzyme molecule , and except in the case of fluoride all of the anions appeared to bind at the same site .
cyanide ion produced a much more effective inhibition of renal dipeptidase than the other monoanions , and it was shown that two cyanide ions were bound per enzyme molecule .
an investigation of the effect of ph upon monoanion inhibition suggested that the anion inhibitors bind to the group with a pk of approximately 7.8 .
complete dissociation of this group ( approximately ph 8.4 ) eliminates the inhibitory effect of anions .
the 35cl line broadening produced by renal dipeptidase in 0.5 m nacl solutions was 100 times more effective than that produced by equivalent concentrations of aquozinc ( ii ) .
the line broadening was dependent upon the concentration of the metalloenzyme and independent of the frequency of the exciting radiation .
when zinc ion was removed from the metalloenzyme by dialysis or when chloride was titrated from the metalloenzyme by cyanide , line broadening was decreased .
treatment of renal dipeptidase with saturating concentrations of the competitive inhibitor , guanosine triphosphate , in the presence of 0.5 m nacl also produced a significant decrease in the 35cl line width .
the 35cl line broadening produced by renal dipeptidase was shown to decrease with increasing ph through the range ph 5.8-10.8 .
this line-width variation with ph appeared to result from the titration of a site on the metalloprotein with an approximate pk of 7.4 .
temperature studies of 35cl line broadening by the metalloenzyme in the presence of chloride and cyanide inhibitors suggest that the fast exchange process pertains and that the dominant relaxation mechanism is quadrupolar in nature .
the interaction of bovine erythrocyte superoxide dismutase with hydrogen peroxide : inactivation of the enzyme .
bovine erythrocyte superoxide dismutase was slowly and irreversibly inactivated by hydrogen peroxide .
the rate of this inactivation was directly dependent upon the concentrations of both h2o2 and of enzyme , and its second-order rate constant at ph 10.0 and 25 degrees was 6.7 m-1 sec-1 .
inactivation was preceded by a bleaching due to rapid reduction of cu2+ on the enzyme , and following this there was a gradual reappearance of a new absorption in the visible region , which was coincident with the loss of catalytic activity .
inactivation of the enzyme was ph-dependent and indicated an essential ionization whose pka was approximately 10.2 .
replacement of h2o by d2o raised this pka but did not diminish the catalytic activity of superoxide dismutase , measured at ph 10.0 .
several compounds , including xanthine , urate , formate , and azide , protected the enzyme against inactivation by h2o2 .
alcohols and benzoate , which scavenge hydroxyl radical , did not protect .
compounds with special affinity for singlet oxygen were similarly ineffective .
the data were interpreted in terms of the reduction of the enzyme-bound cu2+ to cu+ , by h2o2 , followed by a fenton's type reaction of the cu+ with additional h2o2 .
this would generate cu2+-oh- or its ionized equivalent , cu2+-o -- , which could then oxidatively attack an adjacent histidine and thus inactivate the enzyme .
compounds which protected the enzyme could have done so by reacting with the bound oxidant , in competition with the adjacent histidine .
circular dichroism and fluorescence studies of homogeneous antibodies to type iii pneumococcal polysaccharide .
the near-ultraviolet circular dichroism ( cd ) of three homogeneous anti-type iii pneumococcal antibodies in the absence and the presence of the specific hexasaccharide ligand was studied .
in addition recombinations and hybridizations of h and l chains derived from two of these antibodies were carried out and the cd spectra of bound and free reconstituted igg molecules were measured .
the results indicate that the cd spectra of the native antibodies in the 260-310-nm range are very similar in shape and sign and exhibit a positive band at 285 nm .
the homologous reconstituted antibody molecules exhibited cd spectra very similar in shape and sign to those of the native antibody molecules although recombinant molecules are no longer stabilized by interchain disulfide bonds .
upon addition of the hexasaccharide ligand , a significant decrease in amplitude of the cd spectra ( 18-21 % ) occurred in all three native antibodies and their fab fragments as well as in the homologous recombinant molecules .
no cd spectral changes could be detected upon interaction of the hapten ligand with the heterologous recombinants .
all homogeneous antibodies studied exhibited fluorescence quenching upon oligosaccharide binding and a blue shift of the emission maximum .
this property allowed the determination of the binding constant of one selected antibody to be made .
taken together , cd and fluorescence spectroscopic data suggest that oligosaccharide ligands induced detectable conformational changes in the fab fragment of the antibody .
conformational changes induced in a homogeneous anti-type iii pneumococcal antibody by oligosaccharides of increasing size .
the circular polarization of luminescence ( cpl ) emitted by tryptophan residues was used as a sensitive probe for measuring ligand-induced structural changes in a homogeneous type iii pneumococcal antibody .
a series of oligosaccharide ligands of increasing size derived from type iii polysaccharide by partial acid hydrolysis was assayed .
ligand-induced changes in the circular polarization of fluorescence of the antibody were observed for all antigens tested , including tetra- , hexa- , and octasaccharides and a 16-residue oligomer , the largest changes being recorded upon interaction with the intact soluble type iii pneumococcal ( siii ) polysaccharide .
when fab ' or f ( ab ' ) 2 fragments were used instead of the antibody igg for binding of siii polysaccharide , the extent of conformational changes was decreased .
this suggests interactions between fab and fc portions in the igg molecule and subsequent conformational changes in fc part upon antigen binding .
reduction of interchain disulfide bonds abolished the additional spectral changes attributed to the fc part but not the changes observed in the fab part , thus suggesting that the presence of the interchain disulfide bond in the hinge region is required for maximal cpl changes to occur .
small monovalent ligands , i.e. , the tetra- , hexa- , and octasaccharides , were capable of inducing cpl changes in the fab part of the antibody molecule as well as cpl changes attributed to the fc portion .
a multivalent ligand containing about 16 sugar residues appears to be the minimal antigenic size required for triggering conformational changes attributed to the fc part , similar to those seen in the interaction with the whole polysaccharide antigen .
evidence of the involvement of a 50s ribosomal protein in several active sites .
the functional role of the bacillus stearothermophilus 50s ribosomal protein b-l3 ( probably homologous to the escherichia coli protein l2 ) was examined by chemical modification .
the complex [ b-l3-23s rna ] was photooxidized in the presence of rose bengal and the modified protein incorporated by reconstitution into 50s ribosomal subunits containing all other unmodified components .
particles containing photooxidized b-l3 are defective in several functional assays , including ( 1 ) poly ( u ) -directed poly ( phe ) synthesis , ( 2 ) peptidyltransferase activity , ( 3 ) ability to associate with a [ 30s-poly ( u ) -phe-trna ] complex , and ( 4 ) binding of elongation factor g and gtp .
the rates of loss of the partial functional activities during photooxidation of b-l3 indicate that at least two independent inactivating events are occurring , a faster one , involving oxidation of one or more histidine residues , affecting peptidyltransferase and subunit association activities and a slower one affecting ef-g binding .
therefore the protein b-l3 has one or more histidine residues which are essential for peptidyltransferase and subunit association , and another residue which is essential for ef-g-gtp binding .
b-l3 may be the ribosomal peptidyltransferase protein , or a part of the active site , and may contribute functional groups to the other active sites as well .
the interaction of phospholipase a2 with micellar interfaces .
the role of the n-terminal region .
the localization of the previously postulated interface recognition site ( irs ) in porcine pancreatic phospholipase a2 , required for a specific interaction between the enzyme and organized lipid-water interfaces , was investigated by ultraviolet difference spectroscopy , by measurements of the intrinsic fluorescence of the unique trp residue , and by protection experiments against specific tryptic hydrolysis .
using the enzymically nondegradable substrate analogues : cnh ( 2n+1 ) ( 0- ) ooch2ch2n+ ( ch3 ) 3- ( h , oh ) , it is shown that the rather hydrophobic n-terminal sequence of the enzyme , viz. , ala-leu-trp-gln-phe-arg , is directly involved in the interaction with the lipid-water interface .
besides hydrophobic probably also polar interactions contribute to the binding process .
at neutral or acidic ph the presence of a salt bridge between the n-terminal alpha-nh3+ group and a negatively charged side chain stablizes the interface recognition site and allows the enzyme to penetrate micellar surfaces , even in the absence of metal ion .
at alkaline ph , interaction of the enzyme with micellar interfaces requires the presence of ca2+ ( ba2+ ) ions .
phospholipase a2 as a probe of phospholipid distribution in erythrocyte membranes .
factors influencing the apparent specificity of the reaction .
the action of snake venom phospholipases a2 in intact human erythrocytes was investigated in detail .
the basis phospholipase from agkistrodon halys blomhifii was found to induce both hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids and total cell hemolysis under certain experimental conditions .
the hydrolytic action of the basic enzyme was found to consist of two sequential events : ( a ) hydrolysis of 70 % of the total cell ph osphatidylcholine without any evident hemolysis ; and ( b ) complete hydrolysis of the remaining phosphatidylcholine , followed closely by extensive phosphatidylethanolamine hydrolysis and finally with onset of hemolysis , attack on the phosphatidylserine .
at ph 7.4 and 10 mm ca2+ only stage ( a ) occurred .
however , a slight elevation of the ph of incubation to ph 8.0 and/or inclusion of 40 mm ca2+ in the reaction mixture caused both events ( a ) and ( b ) to occur .
the addition of glucose limited the action of the enzyme to stage ( a ) under any reaction conditions .
an investigation showed that enzymically induced hemolysis occurred under conditions where the intracellular atp levels were lowered .
data are presented which suggest that stage ( b ) is mediated by in influx of ca2+ into the cell when the levels of atp are low .
interestingly the phosphllipase from naja naja venom ( pakistan ) yielded results similar to those observed with the basic enzyme from agkistrodon venom .
however , the enzyme from crotalus adamanteus and the acidic enzyme also present in the agkistrodon venom produced only slight hydrolysis or hemolysis under any of the conditions studied .
other species of erythrocytes , e.g. , guinea pig , monkey , pig , and rat , were tested but only those from guinea pig behaved similarly to the human cells .
pig , monkey , and rat erythrocytes underwent very limited hydrolysis and hemolysis .
it is evident that the use of these phospholipases to probe the localization of phospholipds in erythrocyte membranes must be approached with caution .
certain facets of this problem are discussed .
subunit interactions in yeast glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase .
the spontaneous inactivation of yeast glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was found to fit a simple two-state model at ph 8.5 and 25 degrees .
the first step is a relatively rapid dissociation of the tetramer to dimers with the equilibrium largely in favor of the tetramer .
in the absence of nad+ the dimer inactivates irreversibly .
the apoenzyme is quite stable with a half-life for complete activity loss proportional to the square root of the enzyme concentration .
perturbances of the protein structure ( by ph , ionic strength , and specific salts ) , which have no effect on the tetrameric state of the molecule , result in an alteration of the cooperativity of nad+ binding , the reactivity of the active-site sulfhydryl group , and the catalytic activity of the enzyme .
covalent modification of two of the four active-site sulfhydryl groups has profound effects on the enzymic activity which are mediated by changes in the subunit interactions .
sedimentation analysis and hybridization studies indicate that the interaction between subunits remains strong after covalent modification .
under normal physiological and equilibrium dialysis conditions the protein is a tetramer .
equilibrium dialysis studies of nad+ binding to the enzyme at ph 8.5 and 25 degrees reveal a mixed cooperativity pattern .
a model consistent with these observations and the observed half-of-the-sites reactivity is that of ligand induced sequential conformational changes which are transferred across strongly interacting subunit domains .
methods for distinguishing negatively cooperative binding patterns from mixtures of denatured enzyme and multiple species are discussed .
kinetic light scattering studies on the dissociation of hemoglobin from lumbricus terrestris .
the kinetics of the ph-induced dissociation of the 3 x 10 ( 6 ) mol wt hemoglobin from lumbricus terrestris ( the earthworm ) have been studied in a light-scattering stopped-flow apparatus .
the ligand dependent dissociation data were fit well by a simple sequential model .
the data for co and oxyhemoglobin are consistent with hb12 leads to 2hb6 leads to 12hb .
methemoglobin at ph 7 appears to be hexameric and the dissociation is consistent with the model : hb6 leads to 6hb .
in a sequential decay scheme for which light-scattering changes are monitored , the relative amounts of rapid and slow phase are determined by the rate constants as well as the molecular weights of intermediate species .
assignment of the hexameric intermediate is supported by an investigation of the sensitivity of the theoretical kinetic curves to the molecular weights of the intermediates .
this assignment is further supported by the following : ( 1 ) the same model will fit the data for oxy- and co-hemoglobin at all three temperatures ( a 24-29-fold variation in rate constants ) , ( 2 ) evidence from electron microscopy shows hexameric forms , and ( 3 ) methemoglobin is apparently stable as a hexamer at ph 7 .
when co replaces o2 as the ligand , the dissociation rate increases by a factor of four .
the met is about 20 times faster than the initial oxyhemoglobin dissociation rate , but perhaps more relevant for comparing dissociation of the hexamer , the met rate was respectively 100 times and 500 times faster than that for the assumed hexameric forms of co- and oxy-hemoglobin .
the activation energies for the dodecamer to hexamer dissociation and for the dissociation of the hexamer to smaller forms were about 30 kcal/mol for oxy- , co- , and methemoglobin .
the reversible reduction of horse metmyoglobin by the iron ( ii ) complex of trans-1,2-diaminocyclohexane-n , n , n , n-tetraacetate .
the reduction of metmyoglobin by the iron ( ii ) complex of trans-1,2-diaminocyclohexane-n , n , n'n'-tetraacetate ( fecdta2- ) has been investigated .
the equilibrium constant , measured spectrophotometrically , is 0.21 with a resulting reduction potential of 0.050 v for mb0 .
the rate constant for the reduction is 28 m-1 sec-1 with a deltah ++ of 13 kcal m-1 and deltas ++ of -11 eu .
both cn- and oh- inhibit the reduction because of the relatively low reactivity of cyanometmyoglobin ( mb+cn- ) and ionized metmyglobin ( mb+oh- ) .
the rate constant for the reduction of mb+cn- by fecdta2- is 4.0 x 10 ( -2 ) m-1 sec-1 and that for reduction of mb+oh- is 4.8 m-1 sec-1 .
the nitric oxide complex of metmyoglobin is reduced with a rate constant of 10 m-1 sec-1 .
the kinetics of oxidation of oxymyoglobin by fecdta- were studied .
the data are consistent with a mechanism where oxidation takes place entirely through the deoxy form .
a rate constant of 1.45 x 10 ( 2 ) m-1 sec-1 was calculated for the oxidation of deoxymyoglobin by fecdta- , in equilibrium constant and rate constant for reduction .
the above data are discussed in terms of a simple outer-sphere reduction reaction .
constitution and properties of axonal membranes of crustacean nerves .
the purification of axonal membranes of crustaceans was followed by measuring enrichment in [ 3h ] tetrodotoxin binding capacity and in na+ , k+-atpase activity .
a characteristic of these membranes is their high content of lipids and their low content of protein as compared to other types of plasmatic membranes .
the axonal membrane contains myosin-like , actin-like , tropomyosin-like , and tubulin-like proteins .
it also contains na+ , k+-atpase and acetylcholinesterase .
the molecular weights of these two enzymes after solubilization are 280,000 and 270,000 , respectively .
the molecular weights of the catalytic subunits are 96,000 for atpase and 71,000 for acetylcholinesterase .
we confirmed the presence of a nicotine binding component in the axonal membrane of the lobster but we have been unable to find [ 3h ] nicotine binding to crab axonal membranes .
the binding to axonal membranes og of the sodium channel , has been studied in detail .
the dissociation constant for the binding of [ 3h ] tetrodotoxin to the axonal membrane receptor is 2.9 nm at ph 7.4 .
the concentration of the tetrodotoxin receptor in crustacean membranes is about 10 pmol/mg of membrane protein , 7 times less than the acetylcholinesterase , 30 times less than the na+ , k+-atpase , and 30 times less than the nicotine binding component in the lobster membrane .
a reasonable estimate indicates that approximately only one peptide chain in 1000 constitutes the tetrodotoxin binding part of the sodium channel in the axonal membrane .
veratridine , which acts selectively on the resting sodium permeability , binds to the phospholipid part of the axonal membrane .
[ 3h ] veratridine binding to membranes parallels the electrophysiological effect .
veratridine and tetrodotoxin have different receptor sites .
although tetrodotoxin can repolarize the excitable membrane of a giant axon depolarized by veratridine , veratridine does not affect the binding of [ 3h ] tetrodotoxin to purified axonal membranes .
similarly , tetrodotoxin does not affect the binding of [ 3h ] veratridine to axonal membranes .
scorpion neurotoxin i , a presynaptic toxin which affects both the na+ and the k+ channels , does not interfere with the binding of [ 3h ] tetrodotoxin or [ 3h ] veratridine to axonal membranes .
tetrodotoxin , veratridine , and scorpion neurotoxin i , which have in common the perturbation of the normal functioning of the sodium channel , act upon three different types of receptor sites .
regulation of nitrogen fixation .
nitrogenase-derepressed mutants of klebsiella pneumoniae .
1. a new procedure is described for selecting nitrogenase-derepressed mutants based on the method of brenchley et al. ( brenchley , j.e. , prival , m.j. and magasanik , b. ( 1973 ) j. biol. chem. 248 , 6122-6128 ) for isolating histidase-constitutive mutants of a non-n2-fixing bacterium .
2. nitrogenase levels of the new mutants in the presence of nh4+ were as high as 100 % of the nitrogenase activity detected in the absence of nh4+ .
3. biochemical characterization of these nitrogen fixation ( nif ) derepressed mutants reveals that they fall into three classes .
three mutants ( strains sk-24 , 28 and 29 ) , requiring glutamate for growth , synthesize nitrogenase and glutamine synthetase constitutively ( in the presence of nh4+ ) .
a second class of mutants ( strains sk-27 and 37 ) requiring glutamine for growth produces derepressed levels of nitrogenase activity and synthesized catalytically inactive glutamine synthetase protein , as determined immunologically .
a third class of glutamine-requiring , nitrogenase-derepressed mutants ( strain sk-25 and 26 ) synthesizes neither a catalytically active glutamine synthetase enzyme nor an immunologically cross-reactive glutamine synthetase protein .
4. f-prime complementation analysis reveals that the mutant strains sk-25 , 26 , 27 , 37 map in a segment of the klebsiella chromosome corresponding to the region coding for glutamine synthetase .
since the mutant strains sk-27 and sk-37 produce inactive glutamine synthetase protein , it is concluded that these mutations map within the glutamine synthetase structural gene .
the reaction between the superoxide anion radical and cytochrome c .
1. the superoxide anion radical ( o2- ) reacts with ferricytochrome c to form ferrocytochrome c .
no intermediate complexes are observable .
no reaction could be detected between o2- and ferrocytochrome c. 2 .
at 20 degrees c the rate constant for the reaction at ph 4.7 to 6.7 is 1.4-10 ( 6 ) m-1 .
s -1 and as the ph increases above 6.7 the rate constant steadily decreases .
the dependence on ph is the same for tuna heart and horse heart cytochrome c .
no reaction could be demonstrated between o2- and the form of cytochrome c which exists above ph approximately 9.2 .
the dependence of the rate constant on ph can be explained if cytochrome c has pks of 7.45 and 9.2 , and o2- reacts with the form present below ph 7.45 with k = 1.4-10 ( 6 ) m-1 - s-1 , the form above ph 7.45 with k = 3.0- 10 ( 5 ) m-1 - s-1 , and the form present above ph 9.2 with k = 0 .
3. the reaction has an activation energy of 20 kj mol-1 and an enthalpy of activation at 25 degrees c of 18 kj mol-1 both above and below ph 7.45 .
it is suggested that o2- may reduce cytochrome c through a track composed of aromatic amino acids , and that little protein rearrangement is required for the formation of the activated complex .
4. no reduction of ferricytochrome c by ho2 radicals could be demonstrated at ph 1.2-6.2 but at ph 5.3 , ho2 radicals oxidize ferrocytochrome c with a rate constant of about 5-10 ( 5 ) -5-10 ( 6 ) m-1 - s-1 .
identification of the 120 mus phase in the decay of delayed fluorescence in spinach chloroplasts and subchloroplast particles as the intrinsic back reaction .
the dependence of the level of this phase on the thylakoids internal ph .
after a 500 mus laser flash a 120 mus phase in the decay of delayed fluorescence is visible under a variety of circumstances in spinach chloroplasts and subchloroplast particles enriched in photosystem ii prepared by means of digitonin .
the level of this phase is high in the case of inhibition of oxygen evolution at the donor side of photosystem ii .
comparison with the results of babcock and sauer ( 1975 ) biochim .
bio-phys .
acta 376 , 329-344 , indicates that their epr signal iif which they suppose to be due to z+ , the oxidized first secondary donor of photosystem ii , is well correlated with a large amplitude of our 120 mus phase .
we explain our 120 mus phase by the intrinsic back reaction of the excited reaction center in the presence of z+ , as predicted by van gorkom and donze ( 1973 ) photochem .
photobiol .
17 , 333-342 .
the redox state of z+ is dependent on the internal ph of the thylakoids .
the results on the effect of ph in the mus region are compared with those obtained in the ms region .
light-induced changes of absorbance and electron spin resonance in small photosystem ii particles .
photosystem ii reaction center components have been studied in small system ii particles prepared with digitonin .
upon illumination the reduction of the primary acceptor was indicated by absorbance changes due to the reduction of a plastoquinone to the semiquinone anion and by a small blue shifts of absorption bands near 545 nm ( c550 ) and 685 nm .
the semiquinone to chlorophyll ratio was between 1/20 and 1/70 in various preparations .
the terminal electron donor in this reaction did not cause large absorbance changes but its oxidized form was revealed by a hitherto unknown electron spin resonance ( esr ) signal , which had some properties of the well-known signal ii but a linewidth and g-value much nearer to those of signal i .
upon darkening absorbance and esr changes decayed together in a cyclic or back reaction which was stimulated by 3- ( 3,4 dichlorophenyl ) -1,1-dimethylurea .
the donor could be oxidized by ferricyanide in the dark .
illumination in the presence of ferricyanide induced absorbance and esr changes , rapidly reversed upon darkening , which may be ascribed to the oxidation of a chlorophyll a dimer , possibly the primary electron donor of photosystem ii .
in addition an esr signal with 15 to 20 gauss linewidth and a slower dark decay was observed , which may have been caused by a secondary donor .
enzymic reactions of fatty acid hydroperoxides in extracts of potato tuber .
ii .
conversion of 9- and 13-hydroperoxy-octadecadienoic acids to monohydroxydienoic acid , epoxyhydroxy- and trihydroxymonoenoic acid derivatives .
1. crude extracts and partially purified enzyme preparations from potato tubers catalyse , at ph 5-7 , the conversion of linoleic acid hydroperoxides to a range of oxygenated fatty acid derivatives .
2. 9-d- and 13-l-hydroperoxide isomers are converted at similar rates to equivalent ( isomeric ) products .
3. the major products from the 13-hydroperoxide isomer were identified as the corresponding monohydroxydienoic acid derivative , threo-11-hydroxy-trans12,13-epoxy-octadec-cis9-enoic acid and 9,12,13-trihydroxy-octadec-trans10-enoic acid .
the corresponding products from the 9-hydroperoxide were the monohydroxydienoic acid , 9,10-epoxy-11-hydroxy-octadec-12-enoic acid and 9,10,13-trihydroxy-octadec-11-enoic acid .
4. no separation of activities forming the different products was achieved by partial purification of enzyme extracts .
5. product formation was unaffected by edta , cn- , sulphydryl reagents or glutathione but was reduced by boiling the extracts .
6. this system is compared with the 9-hydroperoxide-specific enzymic formation of divinyl ether derivatives by potato extracts .
partial purification and properties of microsomal phosphatidate phosphohydrolase from rat liver .
microsomal phosphatidate phosphohydrolase ( phosphatidate phosphatase ec 3.1.3.4 ) was solubilized and fractionated to yield at least two distinct enzymatically active fractions .
one , denoted fa , was non-specific , had a relatively high km for phosphatidic acid and was insensitive to inhibition by diacylglycerol .
the second fraction , fb , was specific for phosphatidates , had a low km , and was inhibited , non-competitively , by diacylglycerol .
fa exhibited a sigmoid substrate-activity curve .
the isolated fb aggregated to particles of about 10 ( 6 ) in the absence of salts and could be dissociated by the addition of monovalent cations at ionic strength 0.4-0.6 to about 2-10 ( 5 ) daltons and thereby doubled its activity .
dissociation was time- and temperature-dependent .
f- was inhibitory .
divalent ions were not required for the activity of fa or fb and inhibited at concentrations exceeding 1 mm .
bile acids .
xlvii .
12alpha-hydroxylation of precursors of allo bile acids by rabbit liver microsomes .
rabbit liver microsomal preparations fortified with 0.1 mm nadph effectively promote hydroxylation of [ 3beta-3h ] - or [ 24-14c ] allochenodeoxycholic acid or [ 5alpha,6alpha-3h2 ] 5alpha-cholestane-3alpha,7alpha-diol to their respective 12alpha-hydroxyl derivatives in yields of about 25 or 65 % in 60 min .
minor amounts of other products are formed from the diol .
the requirements for activity of rabbit liver microsomal 12alpha-hydroxylase resemble those of rat liver microsomes .
of a number of enzyme inhibitors studied only p-chloromercuribenzoate demonstrated a marked ability to inhibit the reaction with either tritiated substrate .
there was no difference in the quantity of product produced from the tritiated acid or the 14c-labeled acid .
no clear sex difference was found in activity of the enzyme , nor was an appreciable difference noted in activity of the enzyme between mature and immature animals .
partial purification and properties of a phenobarbital-induced aldehyde dehydrogenase of rat liver .
properties of the phenobarbital induced cytoplasmic aldehyde dehydrogenase ( ec 1.2.1.3 ) have been studied in rat liver .
7-12-fold higher levels were seen in the cytoplasmic activities after phenobarbital treatment in reactor compared to non-reactor animals with high concentrations of acetaldehyde ( 18 mm ) and propionaldehyde ( 9 mm ) .
no difference was found with 0.12 mm acetaldehyde , 2 mm glycolaldehyde , 6 mm formaldehyde or 0.5 mm betaine aldehyde .
the reactor group also had slightly higher activity in the mitochondrial fraction with the high acetaldehyde and propionaldehyde concentrations .
in the microsomal fraction , the activities showed no differences at any substrate concentration .
an induced aldehyde dehydrogenase was purified 70-fold by chromatographic techniques .
it had different molecular and enzymic properties than the main high-km enzyme normally present in rat liver cytoplasm .
the pi of the induced enzyme was about 7.0 as measured by isoelectric focusing .
it was active with several aliphatic and aromatic aldehydes but not with formaldehyde , glycolaldehyde or d-glyceraldehyde .
the km-values for propionaldehyde and acetaldehyde were in the millimolar range .
millimolar concentrations of aromatic aldehydes caused a strong substrate inhibition .
the enzyme was inhibited by submicromolar concentrations of disulfiram .
estrone , deoxycorticosterone , progesterone and diethylstilbestrol also affected the enzyme activity .
cholinesterases from plant tissues .
vi .
preliminary characterization of enzymes from solanum melongena l. and zea mays l .
enzymes capable of hydrolyzing esters of thiocholine have been assayed in extracts of solanum melongena l .
( eggplant ) and zea mays l .
( corn ) .
the enzymes from both species are inhibited by the anti-cholinesterases neostigmine , physostigmine , and 284c51 and by amo-1618 , a plant growth retardant and they both have ph optima near ph 8.0 .
the enzyme from eggplant is maximally active at a substrate concentration of 0.15 mm acetylthiocholine and is inhibited at higher substrate concentrations .
on the basis of this last property , the magnitude of inhibition by the various inhibitors , and the substrate specificity , we conclude that the enzyme from eggplant , but not that from corn , is a cholinesterase .
behavior of soluble and immobilized acid phosphatase in hydro-organic media .
the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl phosphate by wheat germ acid phosphatase ( orthophosphoric monoester phosphohydrolase , ec 3.1.3.2 ) has been investigated in mixtures of aqueous buffers with acetone , dioxane and acetonitrile .
the enzyme was either in free solution or immobilized on a pellicular support which consisted of a porous carbonaceous layer on solid glass beads .
the highest enzyme activity was obtained in acetone and acetonitrile mixed with citrate buffer over a wide range of organic solvent concentration .
in 50 % ( v/v ) acetone both v and km of the immobilized enzyme were about half of the values in the neat aqueous buffer , but the ki for inorganic phosphate was unchanged .
in 50 % ( v/v ) mixtures of various solvents and citrate buffers of different ph , the enzymic activity was found to depend on the ph of the aqueous buffer component rather than the ph of the hydro-organic mixture as measured with the glass-calomel electrode .
the relatively high rates of p-nitrophenol liberation in the presence of glucose even at high organic solvent concentrations suggest that transphosphorylation is facilitated at low water activity .
purification and some enzymatic properties of the chitosanase from bacillus r-4 which lyses rhizopus cell walls .
a strain of bacillus sp ( bacillus r-4 ) produces a protease and a carbohydrolase both of which have the ability to lyse rhizopus cell walls .
of the enzymes , the carbohydrolase has been purified to an ultracentrifugally and electrophoretically homogeneous state , and identified as a chitosanase .
the enzyme was active on glycol chitosan as well as chitosan .
molecular weight of the purified enzyme was estimated as 31 000 and isoelectric point as ph 8.30 .
the enzyme was most active at ph 5.6 and at 40 degrees c with either rhizopus cell wall or glycol chitosan as substrate , and was stable over a range of ph 4.5 to 7.5 at 40 degrees c for 3 h .
the activity was lost by sulfhydryl reagents and restored by either reduced glutathione of l-cysteine .
an abrupt decrease in viscosity of the reaction mixture suggested an endowise cleavage of chitosan by this enzyme .
specificity studies on alpha-mannosidases using oligosaccharides from mannosidosis urine as substrates .
oligosaccharides containing terminal non-reducing alpha ( 1 leads to 2 ) - , alpha ( 1 leads to 3 ) - , and alpha ( 1 leads to 6 ) -linked mannose residues , isolated from human and bovine mannosidosis urines were used as substrates to test the specificities of acidic alpha-mannosidases isolated from human and bovine liver .
the enzymes released all the alpha-linked mannose residues from each oligosaccharide and were most effective on the smallest substrate .
enzyme a in each case was less active on the oligosaccharides than alpha-mannosidase b2 , even though the apparent km value for the substrates was the same with each enzyme .
the human acidic alpha-mannosidases were also found to be more active on substrates isolated from human rather than bovine mannosidosis urine .
human alpha-mannosidase c , which has a neutral ph optimum when assayed with a synthetic substrate , did not hydrolyse any of the oligosaccharides at neutral ph , but was found to be active at an acidic ph .
calcium-stimulated adenosine triphosphatase in the microsomal fraction of tooth germ from porcine fetus .
the characterization and localization of a ca ( 2+ ) -atpase ( atp phosphohydrolase , ec 3.6.1.3 ) in the tooth germ of the porcine fetus are reported .
this enzyme , a microsome fraction , is preferentially activated by ca ( 2+ ) .
in the presence of 0.5 mm atp , maximal enzyme activity is obtained at 0.5 -- 1.0 mm cacl2 .
the maximal rate of atp hydrolysis is approx. 20 mumol per h per mg of protein as the enzyme preparation is used here .
at optimal ca ( 2+ ) concentration , the mg ( 2+ ) has an inhibitory effect .
the enzyme does not require na+ or/and k+ for activation by ca ( 2+ ) .
other nucleotide triphosphates may serve as the substrate , but v for atp is the highest .
the km for atp is 8.85 - 10 ( -5 ) m .
the optimal ph for ca ( 2+ ) activation of the enzyme lies around 9.2 .
well known inhibitors of ( na+ + k+ ) -atpase , mitochondria atpase and ca ( 2+ ) -atpase in the erthrocyte do not inhibit the enzyme .
in the subcellular order the enzyme may be assumed to be localized in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum fraction containing cell and golgi body membrane fragments and in the tissue order in the enamel organ containing an ameloblast layer , stratum intermedium and stellate reticulum .
preparation and characterization of an enzymatically active immobilized derivative of myosin .
purified skeletal muscle myosin ( ec 3.6.1.3 ) has been covalently bound to sepharose 4b by the cyanogen bromide procedure .
the resulting complex , sepharose-myosin , possesses adenosine triphosphatase activity and is relatively stable for long periods of time .
under optimal binding conditions , approximately 33 % of the specific atpase activity of the bound myosin is retained .
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of polypeptides released from denatured sepharose-myosin indicates that 85 % of the myosin is attached to the agarose beads through the heavy chains and the remainder through the light chains , in agreement with predictions of binding and release based upon either the lysine contents or molecular weights of themyosin subunits .
the adenosine triphosphatase of the immobilized myosin has been investigated under conditions of varying ph , ionic strength , and cation concentration .
the atpase profiles of immobilized myosin are quite similar to those for free myosin , however subtle differences are found .
the sepharose-myosin atpase is not as sensitive as myosin to alterations in salt concentration and the apparent km is approximately two-fold higher than that of myosin .
these differences are probably due to chemical modification in the region of the attachment site ( s ) to the agarose beads and hydration and diffusion limitations imposed by the polymeric agarose matrix .
radioactive labeling and location of specific thiol groups in myosin from fast , slow and cardiac muscles .
1. based on incorporation of radioactively labeled n-ethylmaleimide , the readily reactive thiol groups of isolated myosin ( ec 3.6.1.3 ) from fast , slow and cardiac muscles could be classified into 3 types .
all 3 myosins contain 2 thiol-1 , 2 thiol-2 and a variable number of thiol-3 groups per molecule .
both thiol-1 and thiol-2 groups which are essential for functioning of the k+-stimulated atpase , are located in the heavy chains in all 3 myosin types .
2. the variation in the incorporation pattern of n-ethylmaleimide over the 3 thiol group classes under steady-state conditions of mg ( 2+ ) - atp hydrolysis allowed different conformations of some reaction intermediates to be characterized .
in all 3 types of myosin the hydrolytic cycle of mg ( 2+ ) - atp was found to be controlled by the same step at 25 degrees c .
in all three cases , this rate-limiting step is changed in the same way by lowereing temperature .
3. using the chemically determined molecular weights for myosin light chains , their stoichiometry was found on the basis of sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis to be 1.2 : 2.1 : 0.8 for light chain-1 : light chain-2 : light chain-3 per molecule of fast myosin , 2.0 : 1.9 for light chain-1 : light chain-2 per molecule of slow myosin and 1.9 : 1.9 for light chain-1 : light chain-2 per molecule of cardiac myosin .
this qualitative difference in light subunit composition between the fast and the two types of slow myosin is not reflected in the small variations of the characteristics exhibited by the isolated myosins , but rather seems to be connected with their respective myofibrillar atpase activities .
yeast glutathione reductase .
studies of the kinetics and stability of the enzyme as a function of ph and salt concentration .
1. the ph dependencies of the apparent michaelis constant for oxidized glutathione and the apparent turnover number of yeast glutathione reductase ( ec 1.6.4.2 ) have been determined at a fixed concentration of 0.1 mm nadph in the range ph 4.5 -- 8.0 .
between ph 5.5 and 7.6 , both of these parameters are relatively constant .
the principal effect of low ph on the kinetics of the enzyme-catalyzed reaction is the observation of a ph-dependent substrate inhibition by oxidized glutathione at ph less than or equal 7 , which is shown to correlate with the binding of oxidized glutathione to the oxidized form of the enzyme .
2. the catalytic activity of yeast glutathione reductase at ph 5.5 is affected by the sodium acetate buffer concentration .
the stability of the oxidized and reduced forms of the enzyme at ph 5.5 and 25 degrees c in the absence of bovine serum albumin was studied as a function of sodium acetate concentration .
the results show that activation of the catalytic activity of the enzyme at low sodium acetate concentration correlates with an effect of sodium acetate on a reduced form of the enzyme .
in contrast , inhibition of the catalytic activity of the enzyme at high sodium acetate concentration correlates with an effect of sodium acetate on the oxidized form of the enzyme .
characteristics of the dephosphorylated form of phosphorylase purified from rat liver and measurement of its activity in crude liver preparations .
the phosphorylated form of liver glycogen phosphorylase ( alpha-1,4-glucan : orthophosphate alpha-glucosyl-transferase , ec 2.4.1.1 ) ( phosphorylase a ) is active and easily measured while the dephosphorylated form ( phosphorylase b ) , in contrast to the muscle enzyme , has been reported to be essentially inactive even in the presence of amp .
we have purified both forms of phosphorylase from rat liver and studied the characteristics of each .
phosphorylase b activity can be measured with our assay conditions .
the phosphorylase b we obtained was stimulated by high concentrations of sulfate , and was a substrate for muscle phosphorylase kinase whereas phosphorylase a was inhibited by sulfate , and was a substrate for liver phosphorylase phosphatase .
substrate binding to phosphorylase b was poor ( km glycogen = 2.5 mm , glucose-1-p = 250 mm ) compared to phosphorylase a ( km glycogen = 1.8 mm , km glucose-1-p = 0.7 mm ) .
liver phosphorylase b was active in the absence of amp .
however , amp lowered the km for glucose-1-p to 80 mm for purified phosphorylase b and to 60 mm for the enzyme in crude extract ( ka = 0.5 mm ) .
using appropriate substrate , buffer and amp concentrations , assay conditions have been developed which allow determination of phosphorylase a and 90 % of the phosphorylase b activity in liver extracts .
interconversion of the two forms can be demonstrated in vivo ( under acute stimulation ) and in vitro with little change in total activity .
a decrease in total phosphorylase activity has been observed after prolonged starvation and in diabetes .
multiple forms of casein kinase from rabbit erythrocytes .
two rabbit erythrocyte casein kinases , gtp : casein kinase i and gtp : casein kinase ii , have been purified 29 000- and 47 000-fold , respectively .
studies employing sucrose density gradient centrifugation indicate that kinase i has a molecular weight of about 9.5 - 10 ( 5 ) ( 25 s ) and kinase ii about 1.4 - 10 ( 6 ) ( 32 s ) .
these enzymes can utilize either atp or gtp as the phosphoryl donor .
among various protein substrates examined , these kinases catalyze the phosphorylation of casein greater than 50 % dephosphorylated phosvitin congruent to 50 % dephosphorylated casein greater than phosvitin .
histones , protamine and bovine serum albumin are poor phosphoryl acceptors .
kinetic data indicate that both enzymes are inhibited by high casein substrate concentrations which may be partially relieved by nacl .
both phosphotransferases require mg ( 2+ ) for activity and are optimally active at ph 9.0 .
the enzymes have apparent km values of 2.5 - 10 ( -5 ) m for gtp , 2 - 10 ( -5 ) m for atp , and 0.4 -- 0.6 mg/ml for casein .
the incorporation of the terminal phosphate of gtp into casein as catalyzed by these enzymes is inhibited to varying degrees by atp , itp , adp , and gdp but not by utp , ctp , gmp , adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate , and guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate .
in addition , naf and 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid are also found to inhibit the activity of both kinases .
the effect of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate is interesting and suggests that this metabolite may regulate the activity of the casein kinases in the red blood cells .
kinetic studies and effects of anions on creatine phosphokinase from skeletal muscle of rhesus monkey ( macaca mulatta ) .
a purification procedure for creatine kinase ( ec 2.7.3.2 ) from muscle of the monke35 -- 170 muequiv h+/mg protein per min at 30 degrees c and a yield of approx. 0.5 g/kg muscle .
assuming equilibrium kinetics , synergistic binding of substrates at one catalytic site is found for both the forward and back reactions .
kinetic constants for the binding of each substrate to the free enzyme and the enzyme-second substrate complex are determined and are compared with those for the enzyme from other species .
inhibition by small anions is determined in the presence of different combinations of substrates and products .
so4 ( 2- ) inhibits by simple competitive inhibition and probably binds at the site of the transferrable phosphoryl group .
inhibition by no3- , no2- , scn- and cl- is more complex and these ions are suggested to mimic the transferrable phosphoryl group in a planar transition-state complex .
these anions stabilize the dead-end complex , enzyme-creatine-mgadp , which lacks the transferable phosphoryl group .
the effects of these anions on the dissociation constants of the enzyme-substrate complexes is reported and is in accord with the above hypothesis .
the dead-end complex in the absence of anion does not protect the essential thiol group against inhibition by iodoacetamide .
addition of no3- or cl- to the dead-end complex or a substrate equilibrium mixture without anion confers protection .
the essential thiol group is inhibited by iodoacetamide at a rate which is essentially independent of ph over the normal stability range of the enzyme .
contrary to our previous report this ph independence is not altered by the presence of dead-end complex , creatine plus mgadp , in the presence or absence of anion or in the presence of a substrate equilibrium mixture .
it is inferred that the 'essential ' thiol group of the monkey enzyme has essentially the same properties as that of the rabbit enzyme .
in consequence , the inferences made about the role of this group based on our previous work on the monkey enzyme are no longer valid .
the present findings are compatible with the essential thiol group playing a conformational role in the catalytic process .
studies on rat renal cortical cell kallikrein .
i. separation and measurement .
a technique has been developed to separate and measure kallikrein in a heterogeneous population of rat renal cortical cells in suspension .
after rat kidneys were perfused in situ in anaesthetized rats , viable , counted cortical cell suspensions were obtained .
cells were suspended in a sucrose/tris buffer containing 0.5 % deoxycholate , homogenized , centrifuged , dialyzed , and gel filtered on sephadex g-25 .
column chromatography on deae-cellulose resulted in a single peak of esterase activity between 0.20 to 0.25 m nacl/sodium phosphate buffer .
subsequent elution yielded an alkaline esterase which was identical to kallikrein isolated from rat urine , insofar as ph optimum , effects of inhibitors , bioassay activity and immunological properties were concerned .
calculated yields were about 70 % of the total esterase activity present in the parent cell homogenates .
recoveries of a purified rat urinary kallikrein added to the cell homogenates , the deae-cellulose columns , or the eluates from the columns ranged from 83-108 % ( mean 96 % ) .
using this technique , it was found that the amount of kallikrein activity present in non-incubated renal cortical cells ranged from 0.6-10 ( -2 ) to 4.6 - 10 ( -2 ) alpha-n-tosyl-l-arginine methyl ester ( tos-arg-ome ) esterase units per 10 ( 8 ) cells .
however , cells incubated in a nutrient medium at 37 degrees c for 3-8 h contained no measurable kallikrein activity , whereas the surrounding medium had kallikrein activity which could be significantly increased by aldosterone and decreased by spironolactone .
studies on electron transfer between mercury electrode and hemoprotein .
the electrochemical behaviour of ferricytochrome c , metmyoglobin and methemoglobin was studied using d.c. , a.c. and differential pulse polarography , and controlled potential electrolysis .
1. the three hemoproteins yield d.c. polarographic steps , and peaks in differential pulse polarograms , the height of which is proportional to concentration .
the charge transfer is influenced by strong adsorption .
2. the concentration dependence of the a.c. polarograms indicates structural changes in the adsorbed molecules .
3. the reduction products of controlled potential electrolysis of metmyoglobin and methemoglobin have absorption spectra identical with the native control samples .
the affinity for oxygen and the cooperativity in hemoglobin are not affected by the reaction at the electrode .
4. the charge transfer proceeds via adsorbed , already reduced , molecules to freely diffusible proteins .
the binding of organic phosphates to human methaemoglobin a .
perturbation of the polymerization of proteins by effectors .
theory is presented relating to the binding of an effector to two states of a protein acceptor coexisting in equilibrium .
the problem is treated in terms of the four possible cases which specify relations between numbers of binding sites and intrinsic binding constants relevant to the acceptor states .
it is shown that a distinction between these cases may be possible on the basis of the form of a plot of unbound effector concentration versus the constituent equilibrium coefficient which may be calculated from the sedimentation coefficient of the protein constituent .
particularly noteworthy in this respect is the finding that a turning point may exist in this plot for defined conditions with systems in which binding sites are not conserved ( and binding affinities are altered ) on polymer formation .
the latter type of system is exemplified by studies on methaemoglobin a in 0.25 m sodium acetate , ph 5.4 .
in the absence of added organic phosphate effectors , a dimer-tetramer equilibrium operates governed by an association constant of 4.15 +/- 0.06 x 10 ( 3 ) 1/mol , determined from sedimentation equilibrium results .
correlation of sedimentation velocity and equilibrium results shows that addition of adenosine 5'-triphosphate ( atp ) results in its binding to one site on each of the dimeric ( alpha beta ) and tetrameric ( alpha beta ) 2 species with intrinsic binding constants 1.03-10 ( 3 ) -1.20-10 ( 3 ) and 1.1-10 ( 4 ) -2.1-10 ( 4 ) 1/mol , respectively .
it is also shown that 2,3-diphosphoglycerate perturbs the dimer-tetramer equilibrium in a similar way to atp .
n-terminal spin label studies of hemoglobin , ligand and ph dependence .
human hemoglobin was spin labeled with 4-isothiocanato-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-piperdinooxyl , which is known to bind specifically to the n-terminal alpha-amino groups of proteins and slightly to the reactive sulfhydryl groups .
electron spin resonance ( esr ) analysis indicated a partially resolved five-line spectrum , suggesting that the label was attached to at least two different binding sites .
using specific blocking reagents prior to spin labeling , the two binding sites were attributed to the sulfhydryl group of beta-93 ( immobile ) and the alpha-amino group of the n-terminal valines ( mobile ) .
the relative motion of the spin at one set of binding sites was restricted regardless of the state of ligation and ph , while the motion at the other site showed dependence on those parameters , e.g. the spin-labeled n-terminal ends of deoxyhemoglobin have restricted motion at all ph ranges studied , while those of oxyhemoglobin are relatively free to move at the basic ph range , but become more restricted in the acidic ph range .
the behavior of holo- and apo-forms of bovine superoxide dismutase at low ph .
1. holo-superoxide dismutase from bovine erythrocytes has been shown to undergo a reversible structural modification in the ph 3-5 range .
2. the spectral alterations observed on changing from neutrality to ph 2 were : a slight attenuation of the 680 nm absorbance ; the loss of the 450 nm shoulder , apparent in the optical spectrum of the native protein ; and a new band appeared at 330 nm .
the circular dichroism at 600 nm was essentially lost while a weak negative band appeared at approx. 380 nm and a positive band at 310 nm. 3 .
the epr spectrum was also modified on changing from the native to the low ph form : a parallel increased from approximately 130 to approximately 150 g , g parallel remained unchanged at approximately 2.27 , and gm decreased from approximately 2.09 to approximately 2.08 .
the apparent linewidth remained essentially constant .
4. high resolution ( 220 mhz ) pmr spectra of holo- and apoproteins revealed that the metals influence the three-dimensional structure of the protein .
5. pmr studies indicated that at ph 3 the apoprotein existed almost entirely in a random coil form and that it assumed a compact well-ordered structure on returning to neutral ph .
the holoprotein maintained a compact , apparently dimeric , structure even at ph 3 .
mechanical precipitation of hemoglobin koln .
hb koln ( beta 98 val leads to met ) was found to precipitate rapidly during mechanical shaking .
the rate of precipitation of hb koln is 5-6 times faster than that of hb s .
the kinetics of precipitation of the patient's hemolysate , which is a mixture of hb koln and hb a , showed a biphasic curve indicating that hb koln precipitates independently from hb a .
the instability of hb koln may be attributed to the conformational change in the vicinity of heme .
the mechanical shaking may be used as a new method for detection and quantitation of hemoglobin koln and other unstable hemoglobins .
physical properties and subunits of haemopis grandis erythrocruorin .
the erythrocruorin of the leech haemopis grandis possessed an s20 , w of 57 s at neutral ph , its isoelectric point at ph 6.0 and exhibited a slightly sigmoid oxygenation curve with n approximately 2.1 and p50 = 11.2 mm at ph 7.4 .
a minimum molecular weight of 24000 +/- 1500 per heme group was determined from the iron and heme contents , 0.22 +/- 0.01 and 2.73 +/- 0.14 weight % , respectively .
the subunit composition of the erythrocruorin was investigated using gel filtration in sodium dodecyl sulfate and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate at neutral ph .
haemopis erythrocruorin dissociated in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate into four subunits ( 1 through 4 ) possessing molecular weights of about 27000 , 23000 , 21000 and 13500 , respectively .
when the erythrocruorin was reduced with mercaptoethanol prior to sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis , three subunits were observed , possessing molecular weights of about 13000 ( i ) , 16500 ( ii ) and 28000 ( iii ) .
sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis of the isolated subunits 1 through 4 showed that subunit i was provided by subunits 1 and 4 , subunit ii was provided by subunit 1 and subunit iii was provided by both subunit 2 and subunit 3 .
haemopis erythrocruorin thus appeared to consist of at least five different polypeptide chains .
it is likely that not all of the constituent polypeptide chains were associated each with a heme group .
the shape of the haemopis erythrocruorin observed by electron microscopy appeared to be consistent with the two-tiered hexagonal array characteristic of annelid erythrocruorins and chlorocruorins .
myosin from arterial smooth muscle : isolation following actin depolymerization .
the contractile proteins from arterial smooth muscle are highly soluble , and can be extracted at i = 0.05 .
however , they can be precipitated by a prolonged dialysis at ph 6 to give an actomyosin with a high , although variable , actin : myosin ratio .
the sedimentation behavior of this actomyosin at high ionic strength was examined as a function of ph , protein concentration and composition by preparative ultracentrifugation .
comparisons with synthetic skeletal muscle actomyosins of similar composition demonstrated significant differences in the behaviors of these two systems .
it was found that much smooth muscle actomyosin is not dissociated by normally relaxing conditions , and that it sediments at a slower rate than f-actin .
the solubility of the supernatant protein ( a myosin-enriched actomyosin ) in 0.2 m k cl ( ph 7 ) depended on the ph during centrifugation .
a lower solubility was associated only with a higher actin concentration in the supernatant , suggesting a dependence on actin repolymerization .
pure myosin was selectively precipitated from the supernatant by polyethylene glycol-6000 , but only when the protein was soluble at low ionic strength .
the solubility of purified myosin was similar to that of myosin from striated muscles .
a relationship between the presence of depolymerized actin and the high solubility of smooth muscle contractile proteins is suggested .
hybrids of chemical derivatives of escherichia coli alkaline phosphatase .
the activities of hybrid dimers of alkaline phosphatase containing two chemically modified subunits have been investigated .
one hybrid species was prepared by dissociation and reconstitution of a mixture of two variants produced by chemical modification of the native enzyme with succinic anhydride and tetranitromethane , respectively .
the succinyl-nitrotyrosyl hybrid was separated from the other members of the hybrid set by deae-sephadex chromatography and then converted to a succinyl-aminotyrosyl hybrid by reduction of the modified tyrosine residues with sodium dithionite .
a comparison of the activities of these two hybrids with the activities of the succinyl , nitrotyrosyl and aminotyrosyl derivatives has shown that either the subunits of alkaline phosphatase function independently or if the subunits turnover alternately in a reciprocating mechanism , then the intrinsic activity of each subunit must be strongly dependent on its partner subunit .
some physicochemical properties of hemoglobin-manitoba ( alpha2 102ser replaced by arg ( g9 ) beta2 ) .
hb-manitoba was discovered in 1970 [ 1 ] in a canadian family of british origin .
recently we observed the same variant in a second family , and found that the oxy-derivative of hb-manitoba is slightly unstable at 65 degrees c , dissociates less readily at alkaline ph than does hb-a , and forms asymmetric hybrids with other hemoglobins which are readily detectable by electrophoresis .
the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin tak , a variant with an elongated beta chain .
the oxygen affinity was investigated of purified hb tak , a human haemoglobin variant with elongated beta-chains .
a very low p50 value was found which was not influenced by the addition of 2,3 diphosphoglycerate .
the n value was 1 , indicating non-cooperativity .
the oxygen equilibrium curve of the whole blood haemolysate containing hbs a and tak was close to that of hb a at the top of the curve , while the bottom of the curve greatly deviated from the latter , indicative of small if any interaction between hb a and tak during oxygenation .
effects of membrane ribonuclease and 3'-nucleotidase on the digestion of polyuridylic acid by rat liver plasma membrane .
1. fragments of isolated rat liver plasma membrane possess a ribonuclease activity which at ph 7.8 in the presence of 10 mm edta can digest polyuridylic acid ( poly ( u ) ) and polycytidylic acid ( poly ( c ) ) but not polyadenylic acid ( poly ( a ) ) and polyguanylic acid ( poly ( g ) ) .
under these conditions , the membrane preparation does not degrade native or denatured dna .
2. the products of the reaction with poly ( u ) ( 10 mm edta present ) can be separated on deae-sephadex into oligonucleotides of increasing chain length .
most of the products are di- to hexa-nucleotides which contain terminal 3'-phosphate groups .
3. when edta is not present ( ph 7.8 or 8.8 ) the plasma membrane preparation degrades both poly ( a ) and poly ( u ) .
with poly ( a ) the product is all nucleoside while with poly ( u ) as substrate most of the product is nucleoside , but also some oligonucleotides are produced .
4. the ribonuclease releases acid soluble products very slowly from high concentrations of poly ( u ) ( mg/ml ) .
5. uridine trinucleotide with and without a terminal 3'-phosphate group is degraded by rat liver plasma membrane .
the trinucleotide diphosphate is rapidly hydrolyzed to nucleoside while the trinucleotide itself is slowly digested and yields intermediate products , including nucleoside .
alterations in phospholipid-dependent ( na+ +k+ ) -atpase activity due to lipid fluidity .
effects of cholesterol and mg2+ .
the ( na+ +k+ ) -activated , mg2+-dependent atpase from rabbit kidney outer medulla was prepared in a partially inactivated , soluble form depleted of endogenous phospholipids , using deoxycholate .
this preparation was reactivated 10 to 50-fold by sonicated liposomes of phosphatidylserine , but not by non-sonicated phosphatidylserine liposomes or sonicated phosphatidylcholine liposomes .
the reconstituted enzyme resembled native membrane preparations of ( na+ +k+ ) -atpase in its ph optimum being around 7.0 , showing optimal activity at mg2+ : atp mol ratios of approximately 1 and a km value for atp of 0.4 mm .
arrhenius plots of this reactivated activity at a constant ph of 7.0 and an mg2+ : atp mol ratio of 1:1 showed a discontinuity ( sharp change of slope ) at 17 degrees c , with activation energy ( ea ) values of 13-15 kcal/mol above this temperature and 30-35 kcal below it .
a further discontinuity was also found at 8.0 degrees c and the ea below this was very high ( greater than 100 kcal/mol ) .
increased mg2+ concentrations at mg2+ : atp ratios in excess of 1:1 inhibited the ( na+ +k+ ) -atpase activity and also abolished the discontinuities in the arrhenius plots .
the addition of cholesterol to phosphatidylserine at a 1:1 mol ratio partially inhibited ( na+ +k+ ) -atpase reactivation .
arrhenius plots under these conditions showed a single discontinuity at 20 degrees c and ea values of 22 and 68 kcal/mol above and below this temperature respectively .
the ouabain-insensitive mg2+-atpase normally showed a linear arrhenius plot with an ea of 8 kcal/mol .
the cholesterol-phosphatidylserine mixed liposomes stimulated the mg2+-atpase activity , which now also showed a discontinuity at 20 degrees c with , however , an increased value of 14 kcal/mol above this temperature and 6 kcal/mol below .
kinetic studies showed that cholesterol had no significant effect on the km values for atp .
since both cholesterol and mg2+ are known to alter the effects of temperature on the fluidity of phospholipids , the above results are discussed in this context .
conformational and molecular responses to ph variation of the purified membrane adenosine triphosphatase of micrococcus lysodeikticus .
a preparation of atpase from the membranes of micrococcus lysodeikticus , solubilized and more than 95 % pure , showed two main bands in analytical polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
they did not correspond to isoenzymes because one band could be converted into the other by exposure to a mildly alkaline ph value .
the conversion was paralleled by changes in molecular weight , circular dichroism and catalytic properties .
denaturation by ph at 25 degrees c was followed by means of circular dichroism , ultracentrifugation and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
a large conformational transition took place in the acid range with midpoints at about ph = 3.6 ( i = 10 ( -4 ) m ) , 4.3 ( i = 0.03 m ) and 5.3 ( i = 0.1 m ) .
the transition was irreversible .
strong aggregation of the protein occurred in this range of ph .
the final product was largely random coil , but even at ph 1.5 dissociation into individual subunits was not complete .
however , partial dissociation took place at ph 5 ( i = 0.028 m ) .
at this ph value the enzyme was inactive , but 20-30 % of the activity could be recovered when the ph was returned to 7.5 .
in the alkaline region the midpoint of the transition occurred near ph = 11 ( i = 0.028 m ) .
the pk of most of the tyrosine residues of the protein was about 10.9 .
the unfolding was irreversible and the protein was soon converted into peptide species with molecular weights lower than those determined for the subunits by gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate .
conventional proteolysis did not account for the transformation .
membrane-bound enzymes .
iii .
protease activity in leucocytes in relation to erythrocyte membranes .
protease activity was detected in membranes of human bovine erythrocytes prepared by the conventional procedures which include washing and removal of the `` buffy layer '' .
the enzyme was extracted by 0.75 m kcns or ( nh4 ) 2so4 and was activated by 0.4 to 0.5 m of the same salts .
colored , particulate hide powder-azure , membrane fractions and soluble proteins such as hemoglobin , casein or albumin were susceptible to hydrolysis by the membraneous protease .
partial purification of the enzyme was accomplished through disc-gel electrophoresis on polyacrylamide in the presence of 0.25 % positively charged detergents like cetyltrimethylammonium bromide .
an alkaline protease ( ph 7.4 ) with properties similar to those of the erythrocyte enzyme was found in leucocytes .
the similarity between the properties of the leucocytic and erythrocytic proteases and the correlation of the activity in erythrocyte membranes with content of white cells in these preparations , suggest that enzymatic activities in the contaminating leucocytes are responsible for the activity of membraneous proteases in erythrocytes .
[ structure formation in interphase adsorption layers of lysozyme at liquid boundaries ] .
in connection with the modelling of biomembranes regularities of the formation and development of interphase adsorption layers of lysozyme at liquid borders under different conditions and depending on the nature of carbohydrate phase were investigated by the determination of mechanical characteristics of such layers .
the investigations carried out showed that the most solid layers appeared under the conditions which assured the formation of the maximum number of intermolecular bonds ( which in a common case is performed with maximum disorderlinesss of the macromolecules which get at the interphase ) .
[ relation between fluorescence and circular dichroism of the complex of the fluorescence probe 4-dimethylaminochalcone with serum albumin ] .
the fluorescence probe ( 4-dimethylaminochalcone ; dmh ) was noncovalently linked to human serum albumin ( hsa ) .
the variation of ph was due to serum albumin structural changes , which was determined in terms of dmh and hsa fluorescence and cd spectra .
considerable changes of fluorescence and cd spectra were observed at ph 8 and 10 , where there is ionization of two more recently titrated tyrosin residues .
it is assumed that these two tyrosine residues are in binding region and quench the fluorescence of dmh between ph 4 to 8 .
quenching disappears if these residues are ionized ( ph greater than 8 ) or if the protein undergoes the n -f transition ( ph less than 4 ) .
[ luminescence study of the effect of temperature on the conformational state of fibrinogen ] .
results are presented of measuring fibrinogen fluorescence parameters in temperature range of 20-80 degrees c at different ph of the solution .
it was found that the temperature increase from 20 to 40 degrees c for solutions with ph of 4,5-9,3 were not accompanied by the conformational changes of fibrinogen macromolecules .
in the temperature range of 40-50 degrees c for neutral solutions conformational reconstruction of fibrinogen of undenatured character took place .
temperature increase above 50-55 degrees c brings about significant structural changes of fibrinogen molecule which are of denaturation nature .
polymer concentration dependence of the helix to random coil transition of a charged polypeptide in aqueous salt solution .
the helix to coil transition of poly ( l-glutamic acid ) was investigated in 0.05 and 0.005 m aqueous potassium chloride solutions by use of potentiometric titration and circular dichroism measurement .
polymer concentration dependence of the transition was observed in the range from 0.006 to 0.04 monomol/e in 0.005 m kg1 solution .
the polymer concentration dependence can be interpreted by current theories of the transition of charged polypeptides and of titration curves of linear weak polyelectrolytes taking the effect of polymer concentration into consideration .
hydrogen peroxide and iron : a microbial cellulolytic system ?
microbial sources of cellulase .
mannosidosis : clinical and biochemical findings .
bovine mannosidosis -- a model lysosomal storage disease .
ehlers-danlos type v ( x-linked form ) : a lysyl oxidase deficiency .
urinary alpha-l-fucosidase .
[ combined effects of hypoxia and hypercapnia on the functional state of the respiratory center ] .
experiments were conducted on cats under nembutal anesthesia ; a study was made of pulse activity of bulbar respiratory neurons , electrical activity of the diaphragm and of the intercostal muscles ; po2 , pco2 , ph , arterial blood oxygen saturation were determined in combined action of hypoxia and hypercapnia .
when hypoxic gaseous mixture was given for respiration the developing hypocapnia disturbed the discharge rhythmic activity of the respiratory neurons , the respiration acquiring a pathological character of the cheyne -- stokes type .
after addition to the hypoxic gaseous mixture of 2 % co2 the gaseous composition of the arterial blood approached the initial values ; this addition prevented the development of hypercapnia and disturbances of rhythmic discharge activity of the respiratory neurons .
addition of 5 % co2 to the hypoxic gaseous mixture produced a negative effect : at first it intensified and then depressed the pulse activity of the respiratory neurons , caused metabolic and respiratory acidosis , and promoted asphyxia .
[ level of nicotinamide coenzymes in the liver and myocardium of rats poisoned with dichlorethane ] .
experiments were conducted on male rats .
a study was made of the content of nicotinamide coenzymes in the liver and myocardium 24 hours after the administration of 0.5 ml of dichloroethane into the stomach .
in parallel with disturbance of the morphological structure of the liver and of the myocardium , increase in the activity of alanine and aspargic aminotranspherases in the blood serum , dichloroethane reduced the content of nicotinamide coenzymes and deranged the ratio of their oxidized and reduced forms in these organs .
[ effect of carbidine on conditioned defense reflexes ] .
chronic experiments were conducted on rats and rabbits ; a study was made of the effect of carbidine on the conditioned defence reflexes in stimulation of the mesencephalic part of the reticular formation .
carbidine prevented the depression of the conditioned defence reflexes caused by stimulation of the mesencephalic portion of the reticular formation .
this pointed to its depressive influence on the mentioned structures , and was confirmed by experiments on rabbits in recording changes in biocurrents under conditions of stimulation of the mesencephalic reticular formation .
[ level of nicotinamide coenzymes in the myocardium of rats during the effects of methylxanthines ( theophylline , theobromine , caffeine ) and catecholamines ] .
it was shown in acute experiments on rats that one hour after an intraperitoneal injection of theophylline ( 50 mg/kg ) there was a decrease in the nad + nadp content by 19.4 % , a tendency to a fall of nad.h2 + nadp.h2 was expressed , and the total nicotinamide coferment level was reduced .
a tendency to decrease nad + nadp and the total pyridine nucleotide level was seen after caffeine administration .
the action of catecholamines and methylxanthines was compared .
theobromine produced no significant effect on the indices under study .
it was shown that isadrine decreased the nad + nadp level ; adrenaline ( 25 mkg/kg ) increased the content of both the oxidized ( by 24 % ) and of the reduced ( by 48 % ) forms of pyridine nucleotides .
an increase of adrenaline dose to 1000 mkg/kg was accompanied by reduction of the oxidized forms ( by 22.2 % ) and of the total nicotinamide coferment level ( by 18 % ) .
potable water quality in rural georgetown county .
drinking water supplies of 161 rural communities , in georgetown county , south carolina , were randomly selected for sample collection .
the analysis showed that most of the waters were slightly acidic .
low , but acceptable concentrations of chloride , copper , fluoride , sodium , cadmium , nitrate and phosphate were found .
a few water samples showed higher then recommended levels of arsenic , mercury , zinc and lead .
although only 2 % of the samples exceeded the mandatory limit of 0.05 ppm for arsenic , 72 % exceeded the recommended level of 0.01 ppm .
the mandatory limit for manganese was exceeded in 37 % of the waters while 88 % exceeded the limit for iron .
the high iron content was generally responsible for the high turbidity found in 45 % of the samples .
the well depth and the consumer income had some bearing on water quality .
statistical evidence suggested that septic tank seepage was partially responsible for nitrate , phosphate , iron and arsenic contamination of shallow water supplies .
lead concentrations appear to vary according to the plumbing used and the ph of the waters .
symposium on malaria research .
6th international symposium on maritime medicine 1974 .
polypsychopharmacy .
[ oxygen affinity of haemoglobin ( author's transl ) ] .
ph changes on the surface of burns .
proceedings : the effects of glucagon on the hepatic arterial vasculature of the dog : an inhibition of the effects of vasoconstrictor agents .
proceedings : central hypertensive action of histamine in rats .
proceedings : response of identified ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus neurons to putative neurotransmitters applied by microiontophoresis .
proceedings : the mechanism of `` adrenaline reversal '' in the anaesthetized cat and rabbit .
proceedings : is atp an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the rat stomach .
proceedings : comparison of the effects of selective alpha and beta-receptor agonists on intracellular cyclic amp levels and glycogen phosphorylase activity in guinea-pig liver .
proceedings : the role of dopamine in rotational behaviour produced by unilateral lesions of the locus coeruleus .
proceedings : do anti-psychotic drugs act by dopamine receptor blockade in the nucleus accumbens .
proceedings : evaluation of narcotic and narcotic antagonist analgesic drugs in the dog dental pulp stimulation test .
meso-appendicular testis .
the importance of an innervated and intact antrum and pylorus in preventing postoperative duodenogastric reflux and gastritis .
this study has investigated the relationship between duodenogastric reflux , gastritis and certain symptoms 6-12 months after three operations for uncomplicated duodenal ulcer .
the operations studied were proximal gastric vagotomy ( pgv , 20 cases ) , truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty ( tv+p , 22 cases ) and truncal vagotomy and antrectomy ( tv+a , 21 cases ) .
duodenogastric reflux was assessed both by a radiological technique and by measuring the concentration of bilirubin in the gastric aspirate before and after operation .
incidence and severity of postoperative gastritis were determined by endoscopic biopsy .
symptoms were assessed by symptomatic score and visick grading .
there was a significant correlation between duodenal reflux and histological evidence of both severe superficial gastritis and glandular atrophy ( p less than 0-01 ) .
there was also a close association between the degree of reflux and the presence of severe heartburn , epigastric pain and bile vomiting after operation .
the amount of reflux did not differ before operation .
there was significantly less reflux following pgv than after either tv+p ( p less than 0-025 ) or tv+a ( p less than 0-001 ) .
the results indicate that an operation which preserves an innervated and intact antrum and pylorus will protect against postoperative duodenogastric reflux , gastritis and symptoms .
haemoglobin rahere ( beta lys-thr ) : a new high affinity haemoglobin associated with decreased 2 , 3-diphosphoglycerate binding and relative polycythaemia .
a new haemoglobin with increased oxygen affinity , beta82 ( ef6 ) lysine leads to threonine ( hb rahere ) , was found during the investigation of a patient who was found to have a raised haemoglobin concentration after a routine blood count .
the substitution affects one of the 2 , 3-diphosphoglycerate binding sites , resulting in an increased affinity for oxygen , but both the haem-haem interaction and the alkaline bohr effect are normal in the haemolysate .
this variant had the same mobility as haemoglobin a on electrophoresis at alkaline ph but was detected by measuring the whole blood oxygen affinity ; it could be separated from haemoglobin a , however , by electrophoresis in agar at acid ph .
the raised haemoglobin concentration was mainly due to a reduction in plasma volume ( a relative polycythaemia ) and was associated with a persistently raised white blood count .
this case emphasises the need to measure the oxygen affinity of haemoglobin in all patients with absolute or relative polycythaemia when some obvious cause is not evident .
endoscopic papillotomy and removal of gall stones .
endoscopic papillotomy was attempted in 59 patients with extrahepatic obstruction of the biliary duct system and was actually performed in 50 patients .
a special high-frequency diathermy knife was introduced via a duodenoscope into the terminal common bile duct and the roof of the papilla was incised .
in 33 out of 39 patients with choledocholithiasis the stones passed into the duodenum spontaneously or were removed endoscopically .
papillary stenosis without ductal stones was successfully treated with this method in eight out of 11 patients .
one perforation of the duodenocholedochal junction occurred and was repaired surgically .
endoscopic papillotomy and stone extraction is a relatively safe and effective method of treating extrahepatic jaundice .
phobias complicating treatment of uterine carcinoma .
editorial : childhood poisoning : prevention and first-aid management .
inhibitory postsynaptic actions of taurine , gaba and other amino acids on motoneurons of the isolated frog spinal cord .
the actions of glycine , gaba , alpha-alanine , beta-alanine and taurine were studied by intracellular recordings from lumbar motoneurons of the isolated spinal cord of the frog .
all amino acids tested produced a reduction in the amplitude of postsynaptic potentials , a blockade of the antidromic action potential and an increase of membrane conductance .
furthermore , membrane polarizations occurred , which were always in the same direction as the ipsp .
all these effects indicate a postsynaptic inhibitory action of these amino acids .
when the relative strength of different amino acids was compared , taurine had the strongest inhibitory potency , followed by beta-alanine , alpha-alanine , gaba and glycine .
topically applied strychnine and picrotoxin induced different changes of post-synaptic potentials , indicating that distinct inhibitory systems might be influenced by these two convulsants .
interactions with amino acids showed that picrotoxin seletively diminished the postsymaptic actions of gaba , while strychnine reduced the effects of taurine , glycine , alpha- and beta-alanine .
but differences in the susceptibility of these amino acid actions to strychnine could be detected : the action of taurine was more sensitively blocked by strychnine compared with glycine , alpha- and beta-alanine .
with regard to these results the importance of taurine and gaba as transmitters of postsynaptic inhibition on motoneurons in the spinal cord of the frog is discussed .
the involvement of lysophosphoglycerides in neurotransmitter release ; the composition and turnover of phospholipids of synaptic vesicles of guinea-pig cerebral cortex and torpedo electric organ and the effect of stimulation .
( 1 ) crude synaptosomal fractions ( p2 ) derived from guinea-pig cerebral cortex were incubated in the presence of 50 mm kcl in a krebs-glucose medium .
torpedo marmorata electric organs were stimulated electrically in vivo at 5 pulses/sec for 30 min by electrodes placed on the electric lobe .
synaptic vesicles were isolated from each source and the phospholipid compositions analysed and compared with vesicles from unstimulated controls .
( 2 ) lysophosphatidylcholine was the only lysophosphoglyceride demonstrable in the synaptic vesicles from either source and its low levels did not increase as a result of chemical or electircal stimulation .
in each case there was a close similarity of the phospholipid distributions in the vesicles taken from control and stimulated samples .
( 3 ) control experiments indicated extensive decreases in the acetylcholine content of the vesicles from the stimulated electric organ and smaller decreases in the acetylcholine content of the synaptic vesicles from stimulated crude synaptosomal fractions .
these fractions were found to respire linearly in the presence of 10 mm glucose and the vesicle fractions were shown to have low levels of contaiminating membranes as judged by marker enzyme analyses .
( 4 ) crude synaptosomal fractions from guinea-pig cerebral cortex were incubated in a krebs-glucose medium with labelled fatty acids and [ 3h ] glucose in the presence or absence of 50 mm kcl .
subsynaptosomal fractionation was carried out and specific radioactivities of phosphatidylcholine , phosphatidylethanolamine , phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylinositol were determined in fractions d ( synaptic vesicles ) , e ( microsomes ) and h ( disrupted synaptosomes ) .
the release of neurotransmitter did not significantly enhance the labelling of phospholipids in any of the fractions studied as compared with phospholipids from unstimulated fractions .
this was found after two incubation times and using [ 14c ] oleate , [ 14c ] arachidonate , [ 3h ] palmitate and [ 3h ] glucose .
uptake of radiolabeled glucose analogues by organotypic pia arachnoid cultures .
processing of trna precursors in higher organisms .
cardiac output response to altered acid-base status during diethyl ether anaesthesia .
the effects of acid-base changes on cardiac output during diethyl ether anaesthesia were studied in 25 mongrel dogs prepared by surgically implanting a plastic encased non-ferrous core electromagnetic probe on the ascending aorta .
the findings are : ( 1 ) metabolic acidaemia produced only slight decrease in cardiac output but a more marked fall became evident with decreasing ph ( 2 ) respiratory acidaemia led to a slight rise in cardiac output .
( 3 ) respiratory alkalaemia decreased cardiac output .
( 4 ) metabolic alkalaemia also produced a decline in cardiac output .
the prevention of autolysis of stored cornea using steroid as a lysosome membrane stabilizer .
many eyes donated for use in corneal grafting are rejected because of signs of autolysis in the donor material .
the purpose of this experimental study was to determine whether hydrocortisone acting as a lysosome membrane stabilizer could prevent or retard autolysis of the corneas under storage , and if so , what was the most efficacious concentration .
different groups of rabbit corneas were placed in saline as controls or in varying concentrations of hydrocortisone ( 10 ( -10 ) m to 10 ( -4 ) m at ph 7.4 ) at 37 degrees c and 4 degrees c .
acid phosphatase released after six hours was measured biochemically .
this enzyme was used as a marker enzyme reflecting lysosomal labilization .
results showed a significant stabilization of the lysosomal membrane at 4 degrees c as compared to 37 degrees c .
a trend towards stabilization of the lysosomal membrane was seen when 10 ( -8 ) m concentration of hydrocortisone at 37 degrees c was used , there being no demonstrable stabilization at 4 degrees c .
respiratory effects of h+ and dinitrophenol injections into the brain stem subarachnoid space of fetal lambs .
mock cerebrospinal fluid ( ph 5.37-8.38 ) or 2,4-dinitrophenol ( dnp ) ( 0.15-1.5 mg ) was injected into the subarachnoid space of the ventral brain stem of exteriorized fetal sheep .
changes in ph on the ventral surface of the medulla did not stimulate respiratory efforts or induce significant cardiovascular changes .
the respiratory response to dnp injections ranged from no response to prolonged rhythmic ventilation that was independent of the peripheral chemoreceptors or the control arterial ph and blood gas tensions .
this inconsistency suggests an effector site somewhat removed from the immediate surface of the medulla .
the heart rate and blood pressure were not affected .
it is concluded that increased h+ concentration in the extracellular fluid of the fetal ventral medulla does not initiate respiration , and any respiratory response to metabolic inhibitors applied to this area therefore is not attributable to a secondary change in surface ph .
soil fungistasis : elevation of the exogenous carbon and nitrogen requirements for spore germination by fungistatic volatiles in soils .
axenic , washed conidia of fusarium solani f. sp. phaseoli , aspergillus flavus , and verticillium albo-atrum were placed on washed difco purified agar discs along with an inorganic salt solution containing various levels of carbon and nitrogen substrates .
these discs were exposed to volatiles from six soils ( ph 5.1-8.6 ) .
fusarium solani macroconidial germination was inhibited mostly by volatiles from soils of ph 5.1 , 6.1 , 7.0 , and 7.5 , but high levels of glucose and nh4cl reversed this inhibition , raising germination to that of no-soil , no-carbon or nitrogen controls .
conidial germination of a. flavus was inhibited mainly by volatiles from high ph ( 7.0 , 7.8 , and 8.6 ) soils , and increased levels of glucose plus an amino acid mixture nullified this inhibition .
volatiles from soils of ph 5.1 , 6.1 , and 7.5 stimulated a. flavus conidial germination .
assays after the removal of co2 from the air above soil of ph 5.1 demonstrated that volatiles inhibitory to a. flavus were produced by this soil .
assays indicated that a koh-soluble compound was a fungistatic soil volatile to f. solani macroconidial germination .
the nullification by carbon and nitrogen substrates of f. solani and a. flavus inhibition caused by soil volatiles parallels that for soil fungistasis .
conidial germination of v. albo-atrum was markedly stimulated by volatiles in all soils tested , and was not affected by removal of co2 .
inhibitory soil volatiles may increase the nutritional requirements for spore germination of certain fungi .
nitrofurazone-reducing enzymes in e. coli and their role in drug activation in vivo .
earlier work showed that escherichia coli contains at least two enzymes which reduce nitrofurazone and other nitrofuran derivatives .
one of these enzymes is lacking in some nitrofurazone-resistant mutant strains .
we now report that there are three separable nitrofuran reductases in this organism : reductase i ( mol. wt. approximately 50 000 , insensitive to o2 ) , reductase iia ( mol. wt. approximately 120 000 , inhibited by oxygen ) , reductase iib ( mol. wt. approximately 700 000 , inhibited by o2 ) .
unstable metabolites formed during the reduction of nitrofurazone by preparations containing reductases iia and iib produce breaks in dna in vitro .
in vivo experiments with nitrofurazone-resistant strains , which lack reductase ii but contain reductases iia and iib , demonstrated that lethality , mutation , and dna breakage are all greatly increased when cultures are incubated under anaerobic conditions , i.e. , conditions such that reductase ii is active .
these results provide further evidence for the importance of reductive activation of nitrofurazone .
enzymatic hydrolysis of agar : purification and characterization of neoagarobiose hydrolase and p-nitrophenyl alpha-galactoside hydrolase .
the mixture of polysaccharides in the gelling component of agar ( agarose ) is hydrolyzed to d-galactose and 3,6-anhydro-l-galactose by a series of hydrolytic enzymes obtained from pseudomonas atlantica .
the final degradative step in the pathway of agarose decomposition is the hydrolysis of the alpha-linkage in the dissaccharide neoagarobiose yielding d-galactose and 3,6-anhydro-l-galactose .
pseudomonas atlantica when grown on agar produces two specific enzymes , p-nitrophenyl alpha-galactose hydrolase and neoagarobiose hydrolase .
the purification and partial characterization of both enzymes are presented .
temperature and ph optima for 21 species of thermophilic and thermotolerant fungi .
a glucose-containing mineral medium supplemented with 0.01 % yeast extract is described upon which all the species of thermophilic and thermotolerant fungi tested will grow .
thirteen of the 21 species do not require the yeast extract supplement for growth .
using this solid , supplemented mineral medium , the ph and temperature optima for growth of all strains were measured .
no correlation was found between temperature optimum and ph optimum among members of the group tested .
physiological differences among isolates of phytophthora cinnamomi .
significant differences in amylase , beta-glucosidase , and phosphatase activities were observed among four phytophthora cinnamomi isolates grown in nutrient-amended sterilized soil for 20 days .
amylase ph optima for the four isolates were within a relatively narrow range ; at ph 5.5 each isolate was within 90 % of its peak activity .
isolates sb-216-1 , 1-281 , and c-39 each exhibited maximal beta-glucosidase activity at ph 5.0 and maximal phosphatase activity at ph 5.0-5.5 .
maximal activity for these two enzymes of isolate a-7725 occurred at ph 3.5 .
in timed experiments , isolates 1-281 and a-7725 exhibited greater amylase activities than did the other two isolates .
for beta-glucosidase , greatest activity was observed for sb-216-1 ; activity of 1-281 was intermediate and least activity was observed for isolates a-7725 and c-39 .
isolates sb-216-1 and 1-281 exhibited greatest phosphatase activities ; isolate c-39 was intermediate in activity , and a-7725 was least active .
results indicate that significant differences exist among the isolates tested and that these differences can be quantitatively measured by the methods described .
regulation and properties of an invertase from clostridium pasteurianum .
an intracellular invertase was induced in cultures of clostridium pasteurianum utilizing sucrose as its carbon source for growth .
this enzyme synthesis could be repressed by the addition of fructose of a sucrose-growing culture .
in contrast , invertase activity was not affected by the addition of glucose to sucrose-growing cells and this enzyme could be induced in a glucose-metabolizing culture by the addition of sucrose .
this enzyme was purified 10.5-fold over the induced lese , ec 3.2.1.26 ) by substrate-specificity studies .
invertase had a ph optimum of 6.5 and an apparent km of 79.5 mm for sucrose , and required high concentration of potassium phosphate for maximum activity .
invertase was completely inactivated by a 2-min heat treatment at 60 degrees c .
this enzyme was strongly inhibited by p-hydroxymercuribenzoate ( pcmb ) and weakly inhibited by 5,5'-dithiobis ( 2-nitrobenzoic acid ) , while cysteine could substantially reverse pcmb ) inhibition , suggesting that sulfhydryl group ( s ) were necessary for invertase activity .
characterization studies on the membrane-bound adenosine triphosphatase ( atpase ) of azotobacter vinelandii .
the adenosinetriphosphatase ( atpase ) ( ec 3.6.1.3 ) activity in azotobacter vinelandii concentrates in the membranous r3 fraction that is directly associated with azotobacter electron transport function .
sonically disrupted azotobacter cells were examined for distribution of atpase activity and the highest specific activity ( and activity units ) was consistently found in the particulate r3 membranous fraction which sediments on ultracentrifugation at 144 000 x g for 2 h .
when the sonication time interval was increased , the membrane-bound atpase activity could neither be solubilized nor released into the supernatant fraction .
optimal atpase activty occurred at ph 8.0 ; mg2+ ion when added to the assay was stimulatory .
maximal activity always occurred when the mg2+ : atp stoichiometry was 1:1 on a molar ratio at the 5 mm concentration level .
sodium and potassium ions had no stimulatory effect .
the reaction kinetics were linear for the time intervals studied ( 0-60 min ) .
the membrane-bound atpase in the r3 fraction was stimulated 12-fold by treatment with trypsin , and fractionation studies showed that trypsin treatment did not solubilize atpase activity off the membranous r3 electron transport fraction .
the atpase was not cold labile and the temperature during the preparation of the r3 fraction had no effect on activity ; overnight refrigeration at 4 degrees c , however , resulted in a 25 % loss of activity as compared with a 14 % loss when the r3 fraction was stored overnight at 25 degrees c .
a marked inactivation ( although variable , usually about 60 % ) did occur by overnight freezing ( -20 degrees c ) , and subsequent sonication failed to restore atpase activity .
this indicates that membrane reaggregation ( by freezing ) was not responsible for atpase inactivation .
the addition of azide , ouabain , 2,4-dinitrophenol , or oligomycin to the assay system resulted in neither inhibition nor stimulation of the atpase activity .
the property of trypsin activation and that atpase activity is highest in the r3 electron transport fraction suggests that its probable functional role is in coupling of electron transport to oxidative phosphorylation .
effects of zinc-smelter emissions on forest soil microflora .
within 2 km of a zinc ( zn ) smelter in palmerton , pennsylvania , near the lehigh water gap , up to 13.5 % zn by weight has been measured in the o2 horizon of the soil , and up to 8 % zn in the a1 horizon .
the total numbers of bacteria , actinomycetes , and fungi ( measured by dilution plate counts ) were greatly reduced in the most severely zn-contaminated soils compared with control soils .
the reduction of microbial populations may be a partial cause of the decreased rate of litter decomposition at lehigh gap .
growth of most bacteria from control sites was reduced by 100 to 200 mum zn , most actinomycetes by 100 mum zn , and most fungi by 100 to 1000 mum zn in thin-pablum extract agar ( tpab ) .
all the tested actinomycetes and non-spore-forming bacteria isolated from zn-contaminated lehigh gap soils were zn-tolerant , growing normally in media containing 600-2000 mum zn .
most fungi , regardless of source , were capable of at least 50 % of normal growth at 700 mum zn .
zinc-tolerant bacteria , actinomycetes , and fungi were readily isolated from low-zn soils , suggesting that selection for zn tolerance may proceed rapidly .
acidophilic mortierella species have been selectively eliminated near the smelter , apparently because of elevated soil ph .
peryronellaea glomerata ( corda ) goidanich and coniothyrium spp. were found only in the high-zn soils .
alpha-naphthoflavone activation of 6-hydroxymethylbenzo ( alpha ) pyrene synthetase .
alpha-naphthoflavone activates the aryl hydroxymethyl synthetase of both the microsomal membrane-bound and soluble enzymes of rat liver and rat lung .
the enzyme catalyzes the hydroxymethylation of benzo ( alpha ) pyrene to the 6-hydroxymethyl derivative .
isolation and characterization of an unsubstituted 2,3-unsaturated sugar , trans-2,3-dideoxy-d-glycero-pent-2-enose , produced by thermal dehydration of 2-deoxy-d-erythro-pentose .
prophylactic antiarrhythmic drug therapy in acute myocardial infarction .
[ influence of beta-blocking agents on experimental atherosclerosis of cocks ( author's transl ) ] .
cytotoxic interaction between gorgonian explants : mode of action .
the effects of the continuous administration of n , n-dimethyl-4-phenylazoaniline ( dab ) on the activities and the inducibilities of some drug-metabolizing enzymes in rat liver .
( 1 ) the effect of feeding a relatively low-protein diet containing 0.06 % dab for 29 weeks on the activity of dab-azoreductase , nitroreductase ( p-nitrobenzoic acid ) , n-oxidase ( n , n-dimethylaniline ) , n-demethylase ( dab ) , cytochrome p-450 , nadph-cytochrome c reductase , beta-glucuronidase and arylsulphatase a were studied .
rapid decreases occurred in the activities of the first six enzymes , reaching minimal values at between 4 and 8 weeks .
activities then increased in all cases to control or nearly control levels .
this rate of increase was least for cytochrome p-450 .
at 4 weeks azoreductase activity with the chemotherapeutic agent cb10-252 ( i ) as substrate was significantly higher than in control rats .
early increases occurred in the activities of beta-glucuronidase and arylsulphatase a and the activity of the latter never dropped below the control level .
( 2 ) an investigation was made of the differential effects of dye feeding on some of the enzyme activities in the two major liver lobes and differences were found .
( 3 ) the effect of phenobarbital ( pb ) pretreatment on the dab-fed rats was studied at 4-week intervals .
the activities of dab-azoreductase and of nitroreductase increased throughout the whole period , while the activities of the lysosomal enzymes were decreased .
( 4 ) after feeding dab for 4 weeks the effect of pb and 3-methylcholanthrene ( mc ) on the activities of dab-azoreductase , cb10-252-azoreductase and components of the azoreductases-cytochrome p-450 , nadph-cytochrome c reductase , the co-cb10-252-azoreductase was not induced by pb or mc , and co did not inhibit its reduction .
its reduction depended only slightly on nadh .
co caused a greater relative decrease in the activity of dab-azoreductase in dye-fed animals and also in animals following pb and mc pretreatment , implying a greater role of cytochrome p-450 in dye-fed animals .
some characteristics of two azoreductase systems in rat liver .
relevance to the activity of 2- [ 4'-di ( 2 '' -bromopropyl ) -aminophenylazo ] benzoic acid ( cb10-252 ) , a compound possessing latent cytotoxic activity .
the system involved in the reduction of 2- [ 4'-di ( 2 '' -bromopropyl ) aminophenylazolbenzoic acid ( cb10-252 ) , an agent designed for treating primary liver cell cancer , has been demonstrated to be localised mainly in the 108 000 x g supernatant fraction of rat liver homogenate .
it is also present in other organs particularly in the spleen .
dab-azoreductase as shown previously is present almost entirely in the microsomal fraction and is found in high concentration only in liver .
the ph maximum for cb10-252-azoreductase implying the importance of the 2'-carboxyl group in determining substrate specificity .
the use of enzyme inhibitors and other additives showed that cb10-252 was not axanthine oxidase or dihydrofolate reductase .
its activity was not affected by carbon monoxide , phenobarbitone ( pb ) , or 3-methylcholanthrene ( mc ) pretreatment .
enhancement of the activity by ferrous ions and fad indicated that at least part of the reduction system could involve a flavoprotein with fad as the prosthetic group .
the activity of cb10-252-azoreductase and methylred-azoreductase was reduced by menadione ( vitamin k3 ) , cyanide and propylgallate .
a diaphorase preparation from pig heart reduced both cb10-252 and methylred with both nadph- and nadh-generating systems .
mercury inhibition of avian fatty acid synthetase complex .
( 1 ) subcutaneous or intra-abdominal injections of 8 mg of hgcl2/100 g body weight markedly depressed hepatic fatty acid synthetase activity of chicks at 1 h post-injection .
the depression occurred despite the fact that the chicks continued to eat up until the time they were killed .
under these same conditions , the hepatic activity of acetyl-coa carboxylase ( ec 6.4.1.2 ) was not affected by hgcl2 , while the activity of the mitochondrial system of fatty acid elongation was stimulated .
( 2 ) when 2-mercaptoethanol was included in the incubation medium for a highly purified preparation of fatty acid synthetase , 500 mum hgcl2 was required to show definite inhibition of the enzyme .
when 2-mercaptoethanol was omitted , 50 mum hgcl2 was inhibitory and 100 mum hgcl2 abolished enzyme activity .
( 3 ) 2 mm dithiothreitol completely protected the purified fatty acid synthetase preparation from inhibition by 100 mum hgcl2 .
when dithiothreitol was added after the addition of enzyme to the mercury-containing medium , protection of the enzyme was not complete .
( 4 ) dialysis of cytosol fractions from chicks injected with hgcl2 against 500 vol. of 0.2 m potassium phosphate buffer ( ph 7.0 ) containing 1 mm edta and 10 mm dithiothreitol for 4 h at 4 degrees stimulated the fatty acid synthetase activity of the fractions .
dialysis of cytosol fractions from noninjected chicks under the same conditions was without effect on fatty acid synthetase activity .
( 5 ) these data support the hypothesis that the inhibitory effect of hgcl2 administered in vivo on hepatic fatty acid synthetase activity in chicks is mediated through the interaction of mercury with the sulfhydryl groups of the enzyme .
[ basic phospholipase of naja nigricollis venom ] .
it is confirmed that n. nigricollis venom contains several phospholipases one of these is a basic phospholipase a .
this enzyme is toxic for mice when injected intravenously .
in vitro it reacts on egg yolk lecithin producing lysolecithin and prevents the phenomenon of blood clotting .
an immunological identity has been established between this basic phospholipase and two acidic phospholipases present in the same venom .
[ spontaneous mortality and vascular lesions in 3 rat strains with different blood pressure levels ] .
we have observed a high and significant mortality in spontaneously hypertensive rats compared to normotensive and hypotensive controls , in the fifth generation .
the hypertensive rats exhibited a high frequency of cerebral haemorrhage and periarteritis nodosa .
effects of decreasing arterial blood pressure on cerebral blood flow in the baboon .
influence of the sympathetic nervous system .
the influence of the sympathetic nervous system on the cerebral circulatory response to graded reductions in mean arterial blood pressure was studied in anesthetized baboons .
cerebral blood flow was measured by the 133xe clearance method , and arterial blood pressure was decreased by controlled hemorrhage .
in normal baboons , the constancy of cerebral blood flow was maintained until mean arterial blood pressure was approximately 65 % of the base-line value ; thereafter , cerebral blood flow decreased when arterial blood pressure was reduced .
superior cervical sympathectomy of 2-3 weeks duration did not affect the normal response .
in contrast , both acute surgical sympathectomy ( cervical trunk division ) and alpha-receptor blockade ( 1.5 mg/kg of phenoxybenzamine ) enhanced the maintenance of cerebral blood flow in the face of hemorrhagic hypotension in that cerebral blood flow did not decrease until mean arterial blood pressure was approximately 35 % of the base-line value .
the results indicate that the sympathetic nervous system is not involved in the maintenance of cerebral blood flow in the face of a fall in arterial blood pressure .
indeed , the implication is that the sympathicoadrenal discharge accompanying hemorrhagic hypotension is detrimental to , rather than responsible for , cerebral autoregulation .
influence of hematocrit , blood gas tensions , and ph on pressure-flow relations in the isolated canine lung .
an isolated perfused canine lung preparation in which determinants of vascular caliber could be individually controlled was developed .
the relation of pulmonary arterial ( pa ) , venous ( pv ) , and alveolar ( pa ) pressures was such that pa greater than pa greater than pv throughout the whole lung .
the addition of isoprenaline to the perfusate abolished vascular reactivity .
once stability was reached , vascular cross-sectional area remained acceptably constant for 2.25 hours as judged by normalized conductance .
the influence of perfusate hematocrit , blood gas tensions , and ph on pressure-flow relations was then studied in 15 isolated canine lungs .
the hematocrit-vascular conductance relation was derived at constant perfusion pressure .
conductance varied linearly with hematocrit over a range of 16.5 to 89.5 % .
mean pulmonary arterial blood gas tensions were : po2 = 121 mm hg , pco2 = 28 mm hg , and ph = 7.46 .
acute respiratory acidosis ( po2 = 30 mm hg , pco2 = 81 mm hg , ph = 7.17 ) and lactic acidosis and hypoxemia ( po2 = 32 mm hg , pco2 = 21 mm hg , ph = 6.96 ) did not significantly alter this relation .
transformation of the conductance-hematocrit data indicated that hematocrit was the most important determinant of relative apparent viscosity of the blood .
both acute respiratory and lactic acidosis failed to significantly increase relative viscosity within the range of hematocrit usually found in secondary polycythemia .
interaction of the chemoreflex and the pulmonary inflation reflex in the regulation of coronary circulation in conscious dogs .
the interaction of chemoreflex and pulmonary inflation reflex control of the coronary circulation was examined in conscious dogs by comparing the responses to chemoreflex stimulation ( intracarotid injection of nicotine ) when ventilation was allowed to increase with those when ventilation was controlled .
the responses were also compared with those elicited by both forced mechanical and spontaneous hyperinflation .
when the heart rate was constant , intracarotidly administered nicotine induced an increase in the depth of respiration followed closely by an increase in late diastolic coronary flow from 48 +/- 2 to 106 +/- 8 ml/min and a reduction in late diastolic coronary resistance from 1.62 +/- 0.08 to 0.78 +/- 0.06 mm hg/ml min-1 .
after beta-receptor and cholinergic blockade , a similar coronary dilation in response to nicotine occurred only when ventilation was allowed to increase .
however , when ventilation was controlled , intracarotidly administered nicotine increased coronary resistance after combined beta-receptor and cholinergic blockade .
the reflex coronary dilation was not observed after carotid sinus nerve section or after alpha-receptor blockade .
thus , nicotine stimulation of the carotid chemoreflex results in a striking coronary dilation that has two components .
the minor component involves a chemoreflex with its efferent pathway in tthe vagi .
the major component of coronary dilation follows an increase in the depth of respiration , and its efferent component appears to involve withdrawal of alpha-adrenergic constrictor tone .
an almost identical period of reflex coronary dilation followed either forced mechanical or spontaneous hyperinflation in the conscious dog .
effect of coronary blood flow on glycolytic flux and intracellular ph in isolated rat hearts .
the rate of coronary blood flow was varied in isolated working rat heart preparations to determine its influence on the rate of glocose utilization , tissue high-energy phosphates , and intracellular ph .
a 60 % reduction in coronary blood flow resulted in a 30 % reduction in oxygen consumption , an accelerated rate of glusoe utilization , lower tissue levels of high-energy phosphate , and higher tissue levels of lactate and h+ .
ventricular performance deteriorated as reflected by a decrease in heart rate and peak systolic pressure .
further reductions in coronary blood flow resulted in inhibition of glycolysis , a greater decrease in tissue levels of high-energy phosphates , and higher tissue levels of both lactate and h+ .
these changes in glycolytic flux , tissue metabolites , and ventricular performance were proportional to the degree of restriction in coronary blood flow .
the importance of coronary blood flow and washout of the interstitial space in the maintenance of accelerated glycolytic flux in oxygen-deficient hearts is emphasized .
it is concluded that acceleration of atp production from glycolysis can occur only in the marginally ischemic tissue in the peripheral area of tissue supplied by an occluded artery .
the central area of tissue which receives a low rate of coronary blood flow will have a reduced rate of atp production due to both a lack of oxygen and an inhibition of glycolysis .
mechanisms of glycolytic inhibition in ischemic rat hearts .
the mechanisms of glycolytic inhibition in ischemic myocardium were investigated in the isolated , perfused rat heart .
glycolysis was inhibited at the level of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase .
the major factors that accounted for the glycolytic inhibition in the ischemic heart compared with the anoxic heart appeared to be higher tissue levels of lactate and h+ in the ischemic tissue .
increased extracellular ph inhibited glycolysis in anoxic and hypoxic hearts much more readily than it did in aerobic hearts .
however , maintenance of both extracellular and intracellular ph caused only a modest acceleration of glycolysis in ischemic hearts .
accumulation of tissue lactate and inhibition of glycolysis were directly proportional to the reduction in coronary bloow flow in both anoxic and ischemic hearts .
at intracellular lactate concentrations between 15 and 20 mm , glycolysis was inhibited under both conditions .
addition of either 10 , 20 , or 40 mm lactate to the perfusate inhibited glycolysis in aerobic , anoxic , and ischemic hearts .
the effect of lactate did not appear to be mediated through changes in intracellular ph .
it is concluded that accumulation of lactate represents a major factor in the inhibition of glycolysis that develops in ischemic hearts .
comparison of contractile performance of canine atrial and ventricular muscles .
this study compared the contractile performance of a canine right atrial trabecula with that of a macroscopically indistinguishable trabecula isolated from the right ventricular apex .
the heart was removed from nine mongrel puppies weighing 6-8 kg and placed in krebs-ringer's bicarbonate solution .
the bathing solution contained only 1.25 mmoles of ca2+ and was bubbled with a 95 % o2-5 % co2 gas mixture .
each atrial trabecula was specially selected from the right atrial appendage .
histologically , these trabeculae showed a remarkable longitudinal orientation of the fibers .
at lmax ( the length of the muscle at which developed tension was maximum ) under identical conditions of temperature , rate of stimulation , ionic milieu , ph , and o2 and co2 supply , right atrial trabeculae achieved the same developed and total tensions but in a much shorter time than did ventricular trabeculae .
in both muscle groups the maximum developed tension averaged about 2.5 g/mm2 .
since lo ( expressed as a fraction of lmax ) was less in atrial muscle than it was in ventribular muscle , we concluded that atrial muscle can be stretched considerably more than can ventricular muscle before optimum length is reached .
at any given initial muscle length , the maximum of tension rise for atrial trabeculae amounted to at least twice that for ventricular trabeculae .
at any given load up to 1.5 g/mm2 , the maximum velocity of shortening of an atrial trabecula was about three to four times that of a ventricular trabecula .
these results collectively indicate that the contractile performance of the right atrial muscle is in many respects superior to that of the right ventricle , at least under the conditions of these experiments .
serum lactate dehydrogenase activity ratios with different substrates .
1. the lactate dehydrogenase activity of 89 sera from patients suffering myocardial infarction and of 55 sera from patients with hepatocellular damage was assayed under optimal conditions using pyruvate , alpha-oxobutyrate , hydroxypyruvate and glyoxylate as substrates .
activity was also measured with lactate as substrate at different ph values .
2. the ratios of activities under these different assay conditions were calculated for both series of patients .
correct differentiations for single ratios ranged from virtually nil for hydroxypyruvate/alpha-oxobutyrate to is greater than 93 per cent for glyoxylate/hydroxypyruvate and glyoxylate/alpha-oxobutyrate .
this was little improved by the use of multiple ratios involving up to seven separate assays .
3. the activity ratio of hydroxypyruvate to pyruvate which is consistently greater than unity was found to be inverted in a case of morphine poisoning .
fluorometric assay for n-acetylprocainamide .
we describe a simple , rapid fluorometric assay for separate quantitative analysis of procainamide and n-acetylprocainamide in mixtures .
the effective lenear range ( fluorescence vs. concentration ) in serum is 0.1 to 10.0 mg/liter , regardless of the ratio ( by weight ) of the two drugs from 1:10 to 10:1 .
analytical recoveries by the extraction method used were 100.0 +/- 3.0 % and 98.0 +/- 4.0 % , respectively .
for determination of either compound , the maximum coefficient of variation was 10 % .
rapid kinetic measurement of lactate in plasma with a centrifugal analyzer .
in this method , blood is collected in ammonium heparinized microhematocrit tubes and lactate is directly determined in the plasma , separated within 15 min from the erythrocytes .
lactate is assayed by mixing 10 mul of sample with nad+ and lactate dehydrogenase in tris ( hydroxymethyl ) aminomethane hydrazine buffer .
the rate of increase in absorbance of the nadh formed , measured at 340 nm , is proportional to lactate concentration .
the assay is complete in 4 min and absorbance is linearly related to concentration from 0.625 to 15 mmol/liter .
analytical recoveries of lactate added to plasma averaged 104 % ( range , 91-116 % ) .
results compared well for plasma samples analyzed by this method with the centrifichem and the du pont aca .
improved high-resolution high-voltage paper electrophoresis system for use in screening for aminoacidopathies .
high-voltage paper electrophoresis of small samples of serum and urine at ph 6.0 resolves basic and acidic amino acids and separates them from the neutral amino acids .
for separation and identification of the neutral amino acids , the appropriate area of the electrophoretogram is cut out , sewn onto a second sheet of paper , and rerun at ph 1.9 .
by this method , amino acids are rapidly resolved .
it is suited for use with special procedures such as oxidation of biological fluid with performic acid and specific staining for confirmation of amino acid identification .
measurement of total alkaline phosphatase activity in human serum .
problems associated with the determination of arylsulfatase a and b using nitrocatechol sulfate substrate .
a clinical method for the determination of serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase .
a simple , highly sensitive and reproducible method for the assay of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase ( ec 2.3.2- ) activity is introduced , using gamma-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide as a substrate and glycylglycine as an acceptor in 50 g/l of polyoxyethylene nonylphenol .
serum transpeptidase activity was assayed in 1080 healthy adults , the normal mean value being 14.8 mu/ml .
the diagnostic evaluation of the enzyme in various hepatobiliary diseases is also discussed .
[ inborn error of glycolipid metabolism ] .
treatment of renal hypertension .
there are different types of renal hypertension : hypertension due to parenchymal renal disease , renovascular hypertension , hypertension due to urological disease , hypertension of endstage renal disease .
treatment has to consider-above all-the possibility of specific , medical or surgical procedures that may cause the underlying condition .
if the underlying disease is not amenable to specific therapy , symptomatic medical treatment to lower blood pressure is indicated : besides control of sodium-intake and body weight antihypertensive drugs are generally indicated .
we use them , alone or in combination , in the following line of order : diuretics , beta-adrenergic blockers , dihydralazine , reserpine , clonidine , alpha-methyldopa , guanethidine .
effects of graded infusions of monomethylmethacrylate on coagulation , blood lipids , respiration and circulation .
an experimental study in dogs .
in 4 dogs injected intravenously ( i.v. ) with 125i labeled fibrinogen , 51cr labeled platelets and 99mtc labeled albumin , and subjected to successively increasing amounts of i.v. infused monomethylmethacrylate , doses corresponding to the amounts released into the blood stream following implantation of acrylic cement during total hip replacements did not affect the clotting mechanism , did not cause trapping of platelets and fibrin in the lungs , did not generate fat emboli , and did not cause depression of the arterial oxygen tension or blood pressure .
monomethylmethacrylate in whole blood was associated with both blood cells and plasma .
some pharmacologic aspects of the antihistamines .
a survey of current clinical applications .
anaerobic glycolysis in normal human erythrocytes incubated in vitro with sodium salicylate .
1. some effects of sodium salicylate upon anaerobic glycolysis have been studied in normal human erythrocytes incubated for up to 6 h at 37 degrees c in autologous sera .
2. both glucose consumption and lactate production were stimulated by concentrations of salicylate up to 60 mmol/l but at the highest concentration used ( 90 mmol/l ) an initial stimulus was followed by inhibition of glycolysis .
3. losses occurred of adenosine 5'-triphosphate ( atp ) , adenosine 5'-diphosphate ( adp ) and adenosine 5'-phosphate ( amp ) at higher concentrations of salicylate and there was a concomitant increase of inorganic phosphate .
4. other phosphate esters underwent concentration changes at higher concentrations of salicylate that reflected inadequate concentrations of atp for glycolysis .
5. the rates of sodium efflux from , and potassium influx into , erythrocytes were unaffected by the presence of salicylate at concentrations sufficient to stimulate glycolysis .
arterial catecholamines in hypoxic exercise in man .
1. we measured the minute ventilation and arterial blood catecholamine concentrations in four normal men standing and at two levels of moderate treadmill exercise breathing 14 % oxygen or air .
2. minute ventilation was significantly higher during hypoxic exercise than during normoxic exercise at an oxygen uptake of 1500 ml/min. 3 .
arterial plasma noradrenaline during hypoxic exercise at an oxygen uptake of 1500 ml/min was significantly greater than at rest .
4. arterial plasma noradrenaline during normoxic exercise at an oxygen uptake of 1500 ml/min was not elevated above the resting concentration .
5. the results are compatible with the suggestion that increased concentrations of arterial plasma noradrenaline contribute to the hypoxic potentiation of the respiratory response to moderate exercise .
meal to pellet intervals in 14 species of captive raptors .
secretion of sulfuric acid in cassidaria echinophora lamarck ( mollusca : mesogastropoda , marine carnivorous snail ) .
studies on the lipid content of pigeon breast muscle .
seasonal variation in diet , volatile fatty acid production and size of the cecum of roch ptarmigan .
the auditory system of the goldfish ( carassius auratus ) : effects of intense acoustic stimulation .
volatile fatty acids and metabolizable energy derived from cecal fermentation in the willow ptarmigan .
a comparison of intestinal amino acid absorption in various avian and mammalian species .
holeuryhalinity and its mechanisms in a cirriped crustacean , balanus improvisus .
a comparative study on the regulation of osmotic , ionic and organic-solute concentrations in the blood of aquatic organisms .
aestivation and thermoregulation in the texas tortoise , gopherus berlandieri .
the respiratory quotient of gammarus pulex l .
water balance of small lactating rodents -- ii .
concentration and composition of milk of females on ad libitum and restricted water intakes .
insect morphogenetic hormones and developmental mechanisms in the nematode , nematospiroides dubius .
osmotic interrelationship between blood and gut fluid in the isopod porcellio scaber latr .
( crustacea ) .
effects of thermal stimulation to the spinal cord on heart rate in cyprinid fishes .
the long-term monitoring of ventilation rhythms of the polychaetous annelid nereis virens sars .
diving bradycardia in four species of north american aquatic snakes .
respiratory responses of gillichthys mirabilis to changes in temperature , dissolved oxygen and salinity .
the pronephroi as the site of presumptive interrenal cells in the hagfish myxine glutinosa l .
excreta analysis on additional cockroach species and the house cricket .
interrelationships between water and metabolism in artemia cysts -- ii .
carbohydrates .
interrelationships between water and metabolism in artemia cysts -- iii .
respiration .
studies on avian erythrocyte metabolism -- i .
procedure for separation and quantitation of the major phosphorylated metabolic intermediates by anion exchange chromatography .
effect of different prostaglandins on the permeability of the toad urinary bladder .
evaluation of amplitude and frequency changes of miniature potentials with a poor signal-to-noise ratio .
practolol , caffeine and calcium in the regulation of mechanical activity of the cardiac ventricle in myxine glutinosa ( l. ) .
asymmetric distribution of aspartate in ganglia and single neurons of aplysia .
electrophysiological actions of convulsants and anticonvulsants on neurons of the leech subesophageal ganglion .
the relative importance of monoamine oxidase and catechol-o-methyl transferase on the physiologic response to administered norepinephrine in the turkey .
the cardiac cycle and the effects of neurohumors on myocardial contractility in the asiatic eel anguilla japonica , timm .
& schle .
characteristics of the noradrenergic innervation of the left atrium in the chick ( gallus gallus domesticus , l. ) .
responsiveness of neurogenic hearts to octopamine .
action of kainic acid on a glutamatergic synapse .
the effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine depletors and monoamine oxidase inhibitors on color changes of the fiddler crab , uca pugilator : further evidence in support of the hypothesis that 5-hydroxytryptamine controls the release of red pigment-dispersing hormone .
evidence of a gastrin-like substance in rhinobatus productus .
5-hydroxytryptamine as a possible inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system of the leech , haemopis sanguisuga .
gastrin-like activity in an indian python .
kinetics of antibody -- hapten reactions .
influence of ph and hypoxia on the success of defibrillation .
clinical impressions about the problem of defibrillation during states of acid-base imbalance and hypoxia have been influenced by studies involving the effect of these derangements on the ventricular fibrillation threshold .
based on body weight , energy requirements for defibrillation in normal dogs were compared to requirements in dogs subjected to commonly encountered acid-base disturbances and severe hypoxemia .
no significant differences were found .
seventy-five percent of all animals in the study were electrically converted with low-to-moderate levels of energy .
the incidence of spontaneous resumption of circulation following defibrillation was lowest in animals subjected to metabolic acidosis and hypoxia .
the results suggest that ph and blood gas alterations , previously shown to influence the normal ventricular fibrillation threshold , do not significantly affect the normal defibrillation threshold .
effects of maleate on renal reabsorption of bicarbonate .
bicarbonate inhibition of rat kidney aconitate hydratase isoenzymes .
metabolic studies in experimental renal dysfunction resulting from maleate administration .
multiple endocrine adenomatosis-i and ii .
a randomized double-blind study of timolol in patients with essential hypertension .
[ observation of permanent teeth adjacent to teeth damaged by trauma ] .
idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis ( hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy ) changing concepts-1975 .
pleural effusion associated with aortitis syndrome .
a patient with aortitis syndrome had a pleural effusion which subsided but reappeared with an exacerbation of aortitis symptoms while under antituberculosis treatment .
the character of the fluid was that of an exudate , and the glucose concentration was normal .
clinical and laboratory features of the case suggest that the effusion was part of the aortitis syndrome per se .
the metabolic fate of securinine .
[ transplantation and preservation of tissue-typized skin in burns ] .
at the department of plastic surgery and burns , berufsgenossenschaftliche unfalklinik ludwigshafen-oggersheim , a skinbank with typed skin has been established .
the storage system consists of deep-freezing at -196 degrees c in liquid nitrogen .
the transplantation of hl-a typed skin was evaluated from the clinical and histological point of view .
due to the effort necessary for such an undertaking this method is critically reviewed .
[ polyploidization and fusion of insect cells exposed to concanavalin a ] .
[ ability of antilymphocyte sera to counteract the allogeneic inhibition of hematopoietic stem cells ] .
[ microenvironment of enzymes as 1 of the factors determining enzyme stability. stabilization of soluble and immobilized horseradish peroxidase ] .
[ 3d regional meeting of the specialty field of supervisory nurses in baden-wurttemberg , northern group. june 25 , 1975 in district hospital heidenheim ] .
[ adverse effects of anti-epileptic drugs ] .
charge properties of human pituitary and amniotic fluid prolactins .
the apparent isoelectric points ( pi ) in isoelectric focusing ( if ) of human pituitary and amniotic fluid prolactin ( hprl ) , both non-iodinated and iodinated , were determined .
unresolved mixtures of pituitary hprl isohormones e and f , and of at least five isohormones found in amniotic fluid , and plasma hprl exhibit an average pi value of 6.5 - 6.7 .
transient state ph values observed or previously reported for hprl components range from ph 5.9 to 6.8 after correction to standard conditions .
at ph 8.1 , the major isohormone , hprl-f , carriers a charge of 2.2 net protons per molecule .
the net charge differences among isohormones e , f and g are compatible with acquisition or loss of single charged groups per 20,000 molecular weight .
this net charge is similar to that of the least prolactin-bioactive major isohormone of human growth hormone ( hgh-b ) , while the hgh with a bioactivity comparable to that of hprl exhibits a net charge of 3.4 valence units .
the `` large '' isohormones j and h increased net charges , by a factor of 2-3 , in direct proportion to their size increments .
human and monkey prolactin and growth hormone : separation of polymorphic forms by isoelectric focusing .
the feasibility of using isoelectric focusing for the separation of primate pituitary growth hormone from prolactin and for the characterization of polymorphic forms of these hormones was explored .
in a ph 3 -- 10 gradient , extracts of both human and cynomolgus monkey pituitaries were each resolved into 4 growth hormone components and at least 3 prolactin components , as shown by radioimmunoassay .
in narrower gradients ( of 2 -- 3 ph units ) greater resolution was achieved ; the principal growth hormone components were well separated from the principal prolactin components but there was overlapping of some minor components .
a partially purified human prolactin preparation was found to contain 4 prolactin components , one of which had a prolactin/growth hormone ratio of 760 .
clinical grade human growth hormone was also resolved into at least 5 prolactin and 5 growth hormone components , many of which had higher pi values than those found in pituitary extract .
under the conditions used , both growth hormone and prolactin were found to be polymorphic with respect to isoelectric point .
some of the human prolactin components were found to contain less than 0.2 % growth hormone by radioimmunoassay .
monkey growth hormone containing 0.01 % prolactin was isolated .
these findings demonstrate that isoelectric focusing is useful for the preparation of both growth hormone and prolactin which are essentially free of one another .
furthermore , the polymorphic forms were repeatedly found in preparations obtained by several methods and from 2 different species , suggesting that these forms are not artifacts .
the interaction of so2 with proteins .
ecological observation of the 137cs-contamination in beef of animals from the southern-bavarian area .
certain climatic and edaphic conformations in the bavarian sub-alpine mountains and in the alps favor above all the development of a land utilization system and farm structures similar to those in the northern part of scandinavia .
in 1963/64 , the years of the highest environmental contamination up to the present , we established in 600 beef samples from the round or shoulder of male and female cattle ( mainly highland cattle ) close connections between the 137cs-contamination of green crop and the long lastnig yearly precipitation quantities , as well as certain relations between the 137cs-contamination of meat and differences in the feeding and keeping of the animals .
during summer-seasons ( april-october ) , beef of cattle from pastures with heavy rainfall ( alps ) was contaiminated by 137cs up to 15 times more than that of confined animals .
hereby the rate of 137cs-contamination in the meat of grazing cattle was nearly proportional to the quantities of precipitation .
when confined cattle were fed on pastures in autumn after harvesting for 2 to 3 weeks , a quick increase of 137cs-contamination of the meat was caused within this time up to values which in this district were otherwise only observed in grazing cattle .
the lower 137cs-content in meat of cattle housed during the summer season is due to the more varied fodder , which is at that time less contaminated than green crop .
during the winter season ( november to march ) , the highest contaminations in the meat of confined ( bohemian forest ) or grazing cattle ( alps ) was measured when the animals in these districts were almost exclusively fed with fodder from the own farmground or with leafy silage .
the highest contamination was almost regularly noticed in january , february and march , as generally during these months the highly contaminated first cut hay is fed .
here the meat was often even more contaminated than that of grazing cattle .
after the quick decrease of 137cs in fallout noticed in the years 1964 and 1965 , in 1965/66 a dependance in the 137cs-contamination of beef on the methods of keeping and feeding could still be observed in only the extreme cases ( alps , bavarian- and bohemian forest ) ; though in general , meat of animals from districts with heavy rainfall was slightly more contaminated than meat of animals from regions with less precipitation .
liver microsomal beta-glucuronidase and udp-glucuronyltransferase .
both udp-glucuronyltransferase ( gt ) and beta-glucuronidase ( betag ) were assayed in untreated liver microsomes .
optimum assay conditions were established with rat liver microsomes using p-nitrophenol ( pnp ) and its glucuronide ( pnpga ) at the ph optima of gt ( 7.5 ) and betag ( 4.5 ) .
the activities of the two enzymes were compared using microsomes from rats , mice , pigs , cattle and horses , with pnp , pnpga , and phenolphthalein as substrate , in the presence of various cofactors and inhibitors at ph 7.5 and 4.5 .
these data disclose pronounced differences with respect to species , substrate and other experimental conditions , thereby precluding the establishment of general optimum conditions .
the two enzymes were also assayed under strictly identical conditions using pnp and pnpga and rat liver microsomes at ph 7.5 in the presence and absence of udp-glucuronate disodium ( udpga ) , activators ( atp ; udp-n-acetylglucosamine ) and inhibitors .
when provided with a functional level of udpga , both enzymes proved active under those conditions , and a conjugation-deconjugation interplay was indicated .
the two processes could be selectively and totally inhibited by zn2+ and saccharolactone .
the results suggest that conjugation-deconjugation-reconjugation cycles may be operative in the metabolism of drugs in vivo , taking place already at the level of the liver endoplasmic reticulum .
biochemical aspects of renal ammonia formation in metabolic acidosis .
in omnivorous creatures , the diet is acidogenic , especially as a result of the meat content , which gives rise to phosphoric and sulphuric acids , i.e. , to metabolic acidosis .
in the short term , metabolic acids are buffered by tissue proteins and bicarbonate ( the 'alkali reserve ' ) .
in the longer term , acid must be excreted , or neutralized with base which is also generated from the diet , by conversion of dietary amino-nitrogen to ammonia .
the final steps of this process occur in the kidney , which converts circulating glutamine to ammonia , and to carbon products such as glucose and carbon dioxide , by metabolic reactions which adapt during acidosis to generate more ammonia and maintain an increased renal ammonia content .
the complex mechanisms which govern the formation of ammonia , glucose and carbon dioxide from glutamine , involving the reactions of amino acids , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , and gluconeogenesis , are reviewed .
studies on the mechanism of the changes in serum and liver gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity .
i. experimental extrahepatic cholestasis in rabbits .
serum , liver and renal gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase ( ggt ) activities were studied in four groups of rabbits : controls , rabbits with obstructive extrahepatic cholestasis , rabbits with obstructive anuria , and animals with combined obstructive extrahepatic cholestasis and obstructive anuria .
serum ggt was essentially increased in rabbits with obstructive extrahepatic cholestasis , showing peak values in the combined cholestasis + obstructive anuria group , and practically normal values in animals with anuria .
liver ggt was increased in both cholestasis groups , but the increase was less prominent than the increase in serum ggt and there was no correlation between them .
in both anuric groups renal ggt was reduced , probably as a result of inhibited enzyme synthesis secondary to the altered conditions for adequate renal function .
the results obtained are suggestive of a probable renal involvement in the formation of the serum ggt activity level .
studies on the mechanism of the changes in serum and liver gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity .
ii .
experimental hexachlorobenzene porphyria in rabbits .
the mechanism responsible for the changes in serum and liver gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase ( gamma-gt ) activity was studied in a model of experimental hexachlorobenzene porphyria in rabbits .
porphyria followed the administration of hexachlorobenzene in doses of 280 mumol - kg-1 body weight , which were given daily through a gastric tube over a 20-day period .
serum gamma-gt activity and the activities of the lysosomal enzymes beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase and alpha-mannosidase were increased , whereas l-aspartate : 2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase and l-alanine : 2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase and l-alanine : 2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase remained unaltered .
there was a considerable increase in liver microsomal protein , gamma-gt , cytochrome p-450 , anilinehydroxylase , aminopyrine-demethylase and delta-aminolevulinic acid synthase .
in the liver gamma-gt was detected in the microsomes as well as in the cytoplasm where enzymatic activity was higher .
the high correlation coefficient between liver gamma-gt , cytochrome p-450 and delta-aminolevulinic acid synthase witnesses a hexachlorobenzene-induced gamma-gt formation in the liver .
a statistically significant correlation between serum and liver gamma-gt activity was also found .
these data strongly suggest that the increase in serum gamma-gt activity may result from the induction of the enzyme in the liver .
changes in erythrocyte 2,3 diphosphoglycerate in women following short term maximal exercise .
15 untrained women were subjected to a walking treadmill test to determine the influence of maximal exercise upon synthesis of erythrocyte 2,3 dpg .
although there was a 9.8 % increase in the 2,3 dpg content following exercise , there was a concomitant 9.4 % increase in the hemoglobin level ; therefore , when 2,3 dpg is expressed as a ratio to hemoglobin ( see article ) , there was no significant change as a result of exercise stress .
it was suggested that three additive factors produced during strenuous exercise ; decreased ph ; increased hemoglobin concentration ; and increased co2 production result in by-product inhibition of 2,3 dpg synthesis .
it is concluded that 2,3 dpg does not provide a physiologic benefit in the adaptation of the oxygen transport system to exercise .
hydroxylation of p-coumaric acid by illuminated chloroplasts .
the role of superoxide .
1. chloroplasts isolated from leaves of spinach-beet ( beta vulgaris l. ssp. vulgaris ) do not catalyse the hydroxylation of p-coumaric acid in the dark unless a reductant ( such as ascorbate , nadh or nadph ) is added .
superoxide dismutase has no effect on this reaction .
2. illuminated chloroplasts catalyse the hydroxylation in the absence of added reductant .
this reaction is completely inhibited by superoxide dismutase , but catalase has little effect .
3. both hydroxylation in the light and hydroxylation in the dark in the presence of reductants are inhibited by diethyldithiocarbamate , edta , cyanide and 2-mercaptoethanol .
4. it is proposed that o-2- generated by illuminated chloroplasts is involved in the provision of a reductant to the enzyme phenolase .
identification of chloride-binding sites in hemoglobin by nuclear-magnetic-resonance quadrupole-relaxation studies of hemoglobin digests .
35cl minus-nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) studies indicate that various digests of human hemoglobin with carboxypeptidase a and b , or a combination of the two , may be used for the identification of chloride binding sites .
all the digestion products contain , like hemoglobin itself , at least two classes of binding sites , one of high , the others of low affinity .
the ph dependence of the excess linewidth of the 35cl minus nmr signal indicates that in the simple digests with either carboxypeptidase a or b , chloride is bound with high affinity at or near his-beta146-asp-beta94 and at or near val-alpha1-arg-alpha141 .
the high-affinity sites show , in the case of the simple digests , a strong oxygen linkage which is lost in the forms digested with both carboxypeptidase a and b ; this linkage may thus be correlated to the presence of conformational changes .
organic phosphates , like inositol hexaphosphate , show competition for some of the high-affinity chloride binding sites in hemoglobin and in the simple digests .
this competition is likewise lost in the doubly digested hemoglobins .
the internal-alkaline ph gradient , sensitive to uncoupler and atpase inhibitor , in growing clostridium pasteurianum .
1. the intracellular ph was measured in growing clostridium pasteurianum with and acid-base equilibrium distribution method .
[ 14c ] dimethyloxazolidinedione , [ 14 ] methylamine and [ 14c ] acetic acid were used as `` deltaph-indicators '' .
during growth the extracellular ph decreased from 7.1 to 5.1 ; simultaneously the intracellular ph changed from 7.5 to 5.9 .
thus , the intracellular ph was more alkaline than the extracellular ph by 0.4 to 0.8 ph-units .
2. this ph gradient ( interior alkaline ) was abolished by the proton conductor carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone and the atpase inhibitor n , n'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide .
the ph gradient could not be demonstrated in cells depleted of an energy substrate .
these results suggest that the ph gradient is formed by an atpase-driven extrusion of protons from the cells rather than by a donnan potential .
3. growth of the organism was inhibited by low concentrations of both carbonylcyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone ( 5 mum ) and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide ( 5 mum ) .
this finding suggests that the ph gradient is essential for the growing cell as it may be required for substrate accumulation and other types of transport processes .
d-alanyl-d-alanine carboxypeptidase in the bacterial form and l-form of proteus mirabilis .
membranes of the bacterial form and the stable and unstable l-forms of proteus mirabilis contain ld and dd-carboxypeptidase .
the dd-carboxypeptidase is inhibited non-competitively by penicillin g .
the enzyme of the bacterial form is highly penicillin-sensitive ( ki - 4 x 10 ( -9 ) m penicillin g ) .
inhibition is only partly reversible by treatment with penicillinase or by dialysis against buffer .
in contrast , the dd-carboxypeptidase of the unstable l-form , grown in the presence of penicillin , is 175-fold less penicillin-sensitive ( ki = 7 x 10 ( 7 ) m penicillin g ) .
inhibition is completely reversed by penicillinase or dialysis .
after inhibition by penicillin and subsequent reactivation the penicillin sensitivity of the bacterial dd-carboxtpeptidase is similar to the sensitivity of the enzyme of the unstable l-form .
the hypothesis is proposed that p. mirabilis contains two dd-carboxypeptidases of different penicillin sensitivity and with different mechanisms of penicillin binding .
peptidoglycan synthesis in the cell walls of the unstable l-form is probably carried out with the help of only one dd-carboxypeptidase , viz. the completely reactivatable enzyme with the lower penicillin sensitivity .
pigeon-liver nad kinase .
the structural and kinetic basis of regulation of nadph .
nad kinase was purified from pigeon liver by an improved procedure which included chromatography on phosphocellulose .
the resultant preparation was homogeneous as judged by gel electrophoresis , but electrofocusing gave indications of heterogeneity .
the enzyme appeared to be of molecular weight 270000 , and to consist of subunits of molecular weight 34000 ; it may therefore be an octomer .
kinetic studies over a wide range of substrate concentrations revealed departures from michaelis-menten behaviour with the substrate nad+ ; these were interpreted tentatively in terms of negative homotropic interactions between identical binding sites , since thermal and chemical inactivation studies revealed no evidence for more than one type of catalytic site .
the significance of the kinetics and of the type of inhibition produced by nadph is discussed in terms of the regulation of nad kinase activity in vivo .
hydrogen ion changes and contractile behavior in the perfused rat heart .
the effect of acid-base alterations was analyzed using isolated rat hearts perfused at constant coronary perfusion pressure , and stimulated to contract at constant rat .
the amount of shortening in the major axis and its derivative were measured to assess myocardial contractility .
both the 'respiratory ' and 'metabolic ' alterations affected the contractile behavior to the same extent .
in the physiological range studied by us , acidosis depresses and alkalosis increases myocardial contraction .
however acidosis seems to depress contractility more than the enhancement produced by the same change in ph towards the alkalotic side .
when either amount of shortening or max dl/dt was plotted as a function of hydrogen ion acitvity ( ah+ ) a linear correlation was obtained , either with pure 'metabolic ' or 'respiratory ' acid-base induced alterations ( correlation coefficients higher than -.95 ; p less than .01 ) .
our findings suggest that in the range studied by us , contraction of the perfused rat heart following acid-base alterations , is a linear function of hydrogen ion activity .
changes of eeg and pulmonary venous admixture during a protein load in patients with cirrhosis .
21 patients with cirrhosis of the liver and 24 control patients were studied before and after a protein load ( 120 g protein per day during one week ) .
an eeg was recorded and a visual assessment of frequency pattern was performed .
venous admixture was estimated during hyperoxia .
according to the eeg frequency pattern the patient group with cirrhosis was subdivided into those with eeg slowing after the protein load ( n = 7 ) and those without ( n = 14 ) .
the following results were obtained : 1 ) resting arterial blood gases did not change in either group .
2 ) there was a significant increase of the aad02 ( difference between alveolar p02 and peripheral arterial p02 ) in cirrhotics and controls .
3 ) the increase in aad02 was significantly larger in those cirrhotics showing eeg slowing compared to those without eeg - slowing or to the controls .
4 ) fractional venous admisture increased significantly in those cirrhotics showing eeg slowing .
there was no significant change in those patients who did not show eeg changes or in the controls .
formation of fertilization acid by sea urchin eggs does not require specific cations .
primary culture of parenchymal liver cells on collagen membranes .
morphological and biochemical observations .
cell transformation in isolated striated muscle of hydromedusae independent of dna synthesis .
induction of dna synthesis by dichloroisoproterenol without initial rise of the camp level in the parotid gland of mouse .
cell density-dependent stimulation of glutamine synthetase activity in cultured mouse teratoma cells .
polyadenylation of nascent rna during the embryogenesis of ilyanassa obsoleta .
the effect of environmental ph upon acid hydrolase activities of cultured human diploid fibroblasts .
enucleation of cells by density gradient centrifugation .
an evaluation of factors affecting the in vitro bioassay for erythropoietin .
two main aspects of the in vitro mouse foetal liver cell assay for erythroid stimulating factor ( esf ) in human sera have been investigated .
the haem extraction process has been shown to give specific and quantitative recovery of 59fe labelled haem from haemoglobin thus confirming that the material assayed in human sera is stimulating the synthesis of this protein .
the extraction procedure can be simplified considerably by prior mixing of the reagents without significantly influencing the results .
several serum constituents ( citrate , testosterone , b12 , folic acid and iron ) have been investigated over a range of concentrations for possible effects on the cultures .
generally only small effects on haem synthesis were observed .
it is concluded that variations in the levels of these factors in sera from treated patients will not produce any significant alterations in the estimated esf concentrations .
[ synthesis of n-substituted isoindolines ] .
some derivatives of isoindoline were prepared in order to test their cardiovascular activity .
pharmacological tests showed that some of the compounds had moderate alpha-blocking and coronarodilatory activity whereas others had some local anesthetic activity .
[ cryptorchism ] .
[ elements of scientific work organization in ambulance feldshers ' functions ] .
[ participation of feldshers and midwives in the secret and partisan activities during the great patriotic war ] .
[ the organization of health education meetings , verbal reports , carnivals , reader's conferences ] .
[ problems concerning the training of feldshers in foreign countries ] .
[ mechanisms of the thermogenic action of noradrenaline during adaptation to cold ] .
in white rats both adapted and unadapted to cold , the rq dynamics during cold exposure , noradrenaline and ganglion blocking agent administration , were studied .
the adapted animals ' rq in thermoneutral conditions was shown to be a little higher than in the control rats ; 0.5 mg/kg noradrenaline injections induced a clear rq decrease in the former and did not influence the latters ' rq .
cold exposure was followed by a rq decrease in both .
ganglion blocking agent administration decreased the rq in the adapted animals and prevented it from falling in the control those .
noradrenaline is supposed to be the main but not the only factor activating lipolysis in the cold adapted animals .
response to exogenous gonadotropins in the unresponsive ovary syndrome .
a comparative study of metal and plastic ( karman ) cannulae for first trimester abortion by suction curettage .
acute bacterial myositis following septic abortion .
an unusual complication .
the binding of substrates and inhibitors to dihydrofolate reductase .
euglena gracilis deoxyribonucleic acid polymerases : subcellular locations and variations during the cell cycle .
monomer complexes of polyadenylic acid .
5-carbamoylmethyluridine : a new minor nucleoside of transfer ribonucleic acid .
the protective effects of cephaloridine on rat kidney lysosomes in vitro .
[ in vitro studies on human ovarian contractility ( author's transl ) ] .
[ studies on the energy for sperm motility ( author's transl ) ] .
properties of urophysial proteins ( urophysins ) from the white sucker , catostomus commersoni .
glutamine synthetase in newborn mice homozygous for lethal albino alleles .
chromosomal basis of the merozygosity in a partially deploid mutant of pneumococcus .
a sulfonamide-resistant mutant of pneumococcus , sulr-c , displays a genetic instability , regularly segregating to wild type .
dna extracts of derivatives of the strain possess transforming activities for both the mutant and wild-type alleles , establishing that the strain is a partial diploid .
the linkage of sulr-c to strr-61 , a stable chromosomal marker , was established , thus defining a chromosomal locus for sulr-c .
dna isolated from sulr-c cells transforms two mutant recipient strains at the same low efficiency as it does a wild-type recipient , although the mutant property of these strains makes them capable of integrating classical `` low-efficiency '' donor markers equally as efficiently as `` high efficiency '' markers .
hence sulr-c must have a different basis for its low efficiency than do classical low efficiency point mutations .
we suggest that the dna in the region of the sulr-c mutation has a structural abnormality which leads both to its frequent segregation during growth and its difficulty in efficiently mediating genetic transformation .
recombination as a requirement for segregation of a partially diploid mutant of pneumococcus .
conditions are described in which the pneumococcal mutant strain sulr-c , resistant to the drug sulfanilamide , gives rise to sensitive segregants resistant to nitrobenzoic acid at a frequency constant with time .
this segregant frequency is markedly enhanced upon exposure of the cells to doses of ultraviolet light or mitomycin c that permit survival of 50 % to 90 % of the cells .
treatment with acridine orange diminishes the segregant frequency .
from the known influences of these three agents on genetic recombination , we propose that a recombination event is necessary in the generation of segregants. -- during a period of incubation following treatment with ultraviolet light or mitomycin c , cell division resumes and the original segregant frequency is restored .
thus potential segregants are either unable to replicate in the absence of selection , or they are under-represented among the cells dividing soon after treatment. -- if the sulr-c mutation is introduced into a mutant pneumococcal strain lacking an atp-dependent exonuclease activity and deficient in recombination with transforming dna , segregant frequencies are unaffected .
this fact may indicate limits upon the type of recombination event responsible for segregation .
[ extrabronchial effects of bronchodilat in patients with asthma and chronic asthmatic bronchitis ] .
involvement of the small intestine in systemic mast cell disease .
a patient is reported with mast cell infiltration of the small intestine in the absence of the skin involvement characteristic of mast cell disease .
she also had subtotal villous atrophy responsive to a gluten-free diet .
criteria for diagnosing mast cell disease of the small intestine are proposed .
the literature of small intestinal mast cell disease is reviewed and the relationship to coeliac disease is discussed .
gastric ph and microflora of normal and diarrhoeic infants .
the microflora and ph of gastric contents were determined in breast-fed and in bottle-fed normal infants , in well nourished infants with acute diarrhoea and in infants with chronic diarrhoea and protein-calorie malnutrition .
the last group of infants was reevaluated after recovery from diarrhoea and protein-calorie malnutrition .
a bactericidal ph effect below 2-5 was observed .
bottle-fed controls had low ph values and low bacterial concentrations , whereas infants with chronic diarrhoea and protein-calorie malnutrition had high ph values and bacterial overgrowth , essentially of gram-negative bacilli .
after recovery , the only remaining alteration was the frequent isolation of yeast-like fungi in low concentrations .
infants with acute diarrhoea , except for the isolation more frequently of yeast-like fungi , presented no alterations ; this seems to indicate that ph alterations and gram-negative bacilli overgrowth occurred during the evolution of the disease to a chronic state .
breast-fed normal infants had hydrogen-ion concentrations similar to those of the chronic diarrhoea group , but without gram-negative bacilli overgrowth , suggesting that other factors , besides ph , regulate bacterial growth in the gastric contents of these groups of infants .
[ allogenic bone marrow transplantation in men ] .
[ bone marrow transplantation in patients with aplastic anemia ] .
[ analysis of clinical phenomena and changes in physico-chemical properties of the blood in mentally ill children ] .
[ biphasic ( ulcer-forming and ulcer-preventing ) effect of adrenaline in rats ] .
adrenaline-induced gastric ulceration was studied in rats .
adrenaline in high doses caused gastric ulcer , which was completely blocked by pretreatment with alpha-blockers ( phenoxybenzamine , dibenamine ) , but not by pretreatment with propranolol or atropine , nor by vagotomy , hypophysectomy or adrenalectomy .
after successive administration of adrenaline , once daily for 7 days , however , no gastric ulcer was observed .
recovery from the ulcerogenic action of adrenaline was seen after 4 weeks withdrawal .
pretreatment with a small dose of adrenaline inhibited the ulcerogenic action of a high dose of adrenaline .
pretreatment with reserpine , pyrogallol or iproniazid inhibited the action of adrenaline .
it is concluded that adrenaline has a biphasic effect on gastric ulceration , the ulcerogenic action is due to its alpha-action and antiulcerogenic effect is due to development of tachyphylaxis .
[ comparison of drug effects on the isolated rat colon and duodenum ] .
adrenaline and isoproterenol elicited nearly maximal relaxation of the colon even in small doses , whereas increase in the doses caused greater relaxation in the duodenum .
in the colon , these drugs prevented , to a great extent the contraction induced by acetylcholine ( ach ) and serotonin but in the duodenum were totally ineffective .
dibenamine and propranolol reduced adrenaline- and isoproterenol-induced relaxation in the duodenum , though propranolol decreased the relaxation caused by isoproterenol .
atropine prevented ach-induced contraction in both the colon and duodenum in the same way .
after 2-bromolysergic acid diethylamide , duodenal contraction caused by ach or serotonin decreased by over 70 % ; however , the contraction of the colon was not significantly inhibited .
methysergide had similar effects , but to a lesser degree .
in calcium-free bathing fluid without addition of na2edta , ach and prostaglandin e1 elicited contraction in the colon , but not in the duodenum .
[ monoamine oxidase ( xxxvi ) . characteristics of benzylamine oxidase in the dog serum ] .
enzymic properties of monoamine oxidase ( mao ) in dog serum were studied and the following results were obtained .
some of enzymic properties of mao in dog serum differed from that of mitochondrial mao .
when dog serum was fractionated by ammonium sulfate , proteins were concentrated in two fractions , such as 25 approximately 33 % and 67 approximately 80 % of saturated ammonium sulfate fraction , while mao activity was concentrated in 40 approximately 50 % of saturated ammonium sulfate fraction .
the reaction rate of mao in dog serum was found to be proportional to enzyme concentration .
the optimum ph of mao in dog serum was 7.0 which differed from that of mao in rabbit serum ( ph 8.0 ) .
tris-hcl buffer strongly inhibited mao activity in dog serum .
when benzylamine was used as substrate , the highest activity was obtained compared with the other substrate used .
the activities with butylamine , amylamine , beta-phenylethylamine and tyramine showed about 30 % while tryptamine and serotonin showed 3 approximately 10 % compared to that with benzymlamine as substrate .
the value of pi50 of catron was about 3 x 10 ( -6 ) m and that of harmaline was about 3 x 10 ( -5 ) m , but pargyline did not inhibit mao activity in dog serum at the concentration of 1 x 10 ( -4 ) m .
[ combined use of bucolome and pyrazolone derivatives ( 1 ) . pharmacological activities and blood concentration ] .
a combination of two or more drugs may exert a drug-drug interaction , in which case the effect can be potentiated or antagonized .
such synergistic effects are well known in the case of pyrabital ( barbital + aminopyrine ) or irgapyrine ( phenylbutazone + aminopyrine ) .
bucolome ( bcp ) , a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent , has the chemical structure of a barbiturate and also resembles the formula of pheylbutazone .
thus the influence of bcp combination on the pharmacological activities of various pyrazolone derivatives was examined .
bcp potentiated the analgesic and antipyretic effects of 4-aminoantipyrine ( 4a ) , methylaminoantipyrine ( ma ) , aminopyrine ( am ) and isopropylaminoantipyrine ( ipa ) , which were substituted by the alkylamino group at 4-position of the pyrazolone ring .
this potentiation occurred when the dose of bcp exceeded that of the pyrazolones , and was especially marked when combination ratio of bcp exceeded that of the pyrazolones , and was especially marked when combination ratio of bcp and pyrazolone was 2:1 mola .
the analgesic effects of antipyrine ( an ) , isopropylantipyrine ( ip ) and aminopropylone ( ap ) , which were substituted by alkyl group or aminoacylamino group at 4-position , were not potentiated by bcp in any combination ratio .
most pyrazolones showed additive acute toxicity in their combination with bcp , but acute toxicities of 4a and am , which were potentiated in analgesic effects , were decreased and antagonized when combined with bcp .
the plasma concentration of am was increased and prolonged by bcp , while that of ip remained much the same .
these results suggest that the pharmacological activities are associated with certain molecular interactions between bcp and pyrazolones , which are substituted by the alkylamino group at 4-position of the pyrazolone ring .
[ combined use of bucolome and pyrazolone derivatives ( ii ) . complex formation due to interaction between bucolome and pyrazolones ] .
we have already reported that bucolome ( bcp ) , a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent , potentiates significantly the analgesic and antipyretic effects of pyrazolones which are substituted by alkylamino group at 4-position of the pyrazolone ring .
physical and quantum chemistry were applied to the mechanism of this synergistic action .
the solubility of bcp was markedly increased in proportion to elevation of aminopyrine ( am ) concentration , but not by a combination with isopropylantipyrine ( ip ) .
the binding of bcp to bovine serum albumin was slightly inhibited by am , but not by ip .
the mixture of am and bcp in aqueous media generated optical absorption in the ultraviolet differential spectrum , due to the charge transfer interaction .
the results of the infrared or nmr spectrum demonstrated the formation of a hydrogen binding in non-aqueous media between bcp and am .
from the calculation of the charge on an atom , the energy of the highest occupied molecular orbital and the frontier electron density , bcp is considered to be a good electron acceptor .
the beta-units of mho of pyrazolones were found to correlate with the potentiation coefficient of analgesic activity in combination drugs .
these results suggest that the complex formation between bcp and pyrazolones is an important factor for the synergism of action and is due to the charge transfer interaction and the hydrogen binding of both molecules .
fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase activity of rhizobium species .
fdp aldolase was found to be present in the cell-free extracts of rhizobium leguminosarum , rhizobium phaseoli , rhizobium trifolii , rhizobium meliloti , rhizobium lupini , rhizobium japonicum and rhizobium species from arachis hypogaea and sesbania cannabina .
the enzyme in 3 representative species has optimal activity at ph 8.4 in 0.2m veronal buffer .
the enzyme activity was completely lost by treatment at 60 degrees c for 15 min .
the km values were in the range from 2.38 to 4.55 x 10 ( -6 ) m fdp .
metal chelating agents inhibited enzyme activity , but monovalent or bivalent metal ions failed to stimulate the activity .
bivalent metal ions in general were rather inhibitory .
prevention of cell agglutination and competence in a genetically transformable strain of pneumococcus by d-glucosamine and d-galactosamine .
in the presence of amino sugars d-glucosamine and d-galactosamine no spontaneous competence could be observed in the highly transformable r6bd strain of pneumococcus or it was decreased by several orders of magnitude .
the highest inhibition of competence was detected when the amino sugar at a concentration 5 mg/ml of the medium was added not only to the transformation but also to the pretransformation medium .
after a 150 min growth in the transformation medium in the presence of the amino sugar a 3 -- 4-fold greater number of cells ( as a viable count ) could be detected as compared with the control without the amino sugar .
it was found microscopically that the amino sugar prevents natural agglutination , which normally occurs in the competent culture .
the role of specific amino sugar determinants for binding of the competence factor on the cell surface and the resulting inhibitory effect of these sugars on the development of competence are discussed .
effect of some aldoses on growth of saccharomyces cerevisiae inhibited with molybdenum .
the inhibitory effect of molybdenum ions on growth of yeasts at ph 5.5 was found to be decreased by aldoses in the following order : d-talose greater than l-mannose greater than l-ribose greater than d-lyxose greater than l-galactose greater than l-arabinose greater than l-glucose greater than l-xylose .
increased concentrations of molybdenum brought about morphological changes of yeast cells .
cells grown under these conditions were smaller , had thicker walls and formed clusters .
transport properties of membrane vesicles from acholeplasma laidlawii .
ii .
kinetic characteristics and specificity of glucose transport system .
the glucose transport system of membrane vesicles isolated from acholeplasma laidlawii is saturable , with a km of 21.2 mum and v of 0.68 nmol min-1 ( mg protein ) -1 .
the process is ph-dependent and a break occurs in the arrhenius plot at 15 degrees c .
exogenous substrates did not stimulate glucose transport probably due to their inability to penetrate into membrane vesicles .
3-o-methylglucose and 6-deoxyglucose competitively inhibited glucose transport .
maltose inhibited transport of glucose noncompetitively .
these sugars also elicited glucose efflux from preloaded membrane vesicles .
transport of 4-deoxy- and 6-deoxy-d-glucose in baker's yeast .
tritium-labelled 4-deoxy-d-glucose ( 4-dglc ) and 6-deoxy-d-glucose ( 6-dgcl ) were prepared by catalytic hydrogenolysis of the corresponding deoxyiodo derivatives with gaseous tritium .
the two sugars are transported into saccharomyces cerevisiae by both the constitutive glucose and the inducible galactose carrier .
uranyl ions are powerful inhibitors .
the ph optimum in uninduced cells lies at 5.5 for both sugars , the apparent activation energies ( between 15 and 35 degrees c ) are 25.1 kj/mol and 16.5 kj/mol , respectively .
the steady-state intracellular concentration of both sugars is less than the extracellular one ( no uphill transport ) .
neither of them is a substrate of yeast hexokinase .
4-deoxy-d-glucose undergoes a dinitrophenol-sensitive conversion to an unknown metabolite which is not phosphorylated and may represent one of its oxidation products .
gluconic acid production by penicillium puberulum .
twenty-five penicillium species isolated from egyptian soil were examined for their ability to produce gluconic acid in surface culture .
of the eight species capable of producing gluconic acid , penicillium puberulum gave the maximum yield ( 91 % gluconic acid from glucose after 7 days of fermentation with 3 % caco3 ) .
peptone was the best nitrogen source for acid fermentation and glucose was superior to sucrose .
addition of low concentrations of kh2po4 and mgso4 - 7 h2o stimulated acid production .
an initial ph of 6.1 was most favourable for acid accumulation and addition of caco3 was necessary for maximum acid production .
a simple method of isolation and purification of cultures of wood-rotting fungi .
a simple method of isolation and purification of cultures of higher fungi , mainly wood-rotting fungi , without special requirements for the presence of nitrogencontaining nutrients is described .
parts of fruiting bodies , spores or infected wood is inoculated on petri dishes with an agar medium of the following composition : 1.0 g kh2po4 , 0.2 g mgso4 - 7 h2o , 0.1 g caso4 , 0.01 g fe2 ( so4 ) 3 , 10.0 g glucose , tap water to 1 litre ; 20.0 g agar .
this medium does not suit most of the contaminants but fungal hyphae overgrow the whole surface of the dish so that a purified culture can be obtained from parts distant from the inoculation site .
the effect of ctab , a cationic surfactant , on the absorption rate of [ 14c ] tripalmitate from a test meal in the rat .
[ language of the other ] .
[ studies on low volume priming heart lung bypass ( author's transl ) ] .
this report concerns the feasibility of low volume priming extracorporeal circulation .
through this study , the bubble oxygenator with zuhdi's heat exchange was used .
moderate hypothermia with surface cooling and hemodilution perfusion with 5 per cent d/w was evaluated in 32 mongrel dogs and 16 clinical open heart cases .
the results obtained here were as follow : 1 ) body temperature reduction by surface cooling before bypass provided more even cooling than did core cooling by low flow partial bypass alone .
2 ) in regard to cardiac loading on returning the whole perfusate of the circuit to patient , approximately 20 ml/kg of 5 per cent d/w was feasible as a priming solution .
3 ) to reduce the blood visicosity , hemodilution technique with 5 per cent d/w was superior , and hemodilution effect during postoperative periods was temporaly .
4 ) the excess lactate volume postulated by huckabee was a available index to evaluate metabolic acidosis during the extracorporeal circulation .
5 ) with aid of surface cooling , the acid-base balance during perfusion was kept to lesser extent than that of core cooling only .
6 ) this study indicated that the low priming perfusion in conjunction with surface cooling hypothermia was a reliable technique for the open heart operation and may be applied in more prolonged perfusion .
[ studies on extracorporeal circulation with large volume hemodilution using lactate ringer's solution and low molecular weight dextran : alterations of acid-base balance associated with intentional hemodilution ( author's transl ) ] .
twenty mongrel dogs , weighing between 7.5 and 13.0 kg were used to investigate the percentage limits permissible for hemodilution using a double-helical reservoir heart-lung machine which has a 1,100 ml of priming volume .
in both 40 and 50 per cent groups of intentional hemodilution by 30 minute extracorporeal circulation , remarkable anemia was inevitable and recovery was extremely slow , especially in the 50 per cent dilution group .
in both 40 and 50 per cent groups of intentional hemodilutions by 30 minute extracorporeal circulation , metabolic acidosis was observed .
in 50 per cent group of intentional hemodilution , no improvement of metabolic acidosis was observed even after perfusion .
when sodium bicarbonate was administered to 40 per cent hemodilution group , minimum alterations of acid-base balance and of serum electrolytes were observed during and after extracorporeal perfusion .
when sodium bicarbonate was administered to 50 per cent hemodilution group , metabolic acidosis was more evident than in 40 per cent hemodilution group accompanied with an increase in serum sodium concentration and a decrease in serum chloride concentration .
these data qualify the use of 40 per cent intentional hemodilution using lactate ringer's solution or low molecular weight dextran for 30 minute extracorporeal circulation when sodium bicarbonate is administered in adequate amounts .
[ malignant rheumatoid arthritis ] .
purification and characterization of phosphodiesterase from crotalus venom .
a procedure for the purification of phosphodiesterase from crotalus venom on deae-cellulose at alkaline ph is described .
the enzyme gives a single band in polyacrylamide gels and is free of contaminating nucleolytic enzymes .
the molecular weight is about 115000 .
concentration in an amicon ultrafiltrator gave a highly concentrated active enzyme .
phosphodiesterase is relatively stable and can be stored at 4 degrees c in the presence of mg2 and serum albumin for years .
for the detection of contaminating endonuclease , an assay was used in which trna was the substrate and possible internal breaks were detected in polyacrylamide gel after denaturation .
with bis ( p-nitrophenyl ) phosphate as substrate , 15mm mg2 was necessary for optimal activity .
the reaction remained linear for at least 15 min at 22 degrees c .
at 45 degrees c , the liberation of p-nitrophenol was highest within 25 min of incubation .
at 75 degrees c , inactivation of the enzyme occurred after 4 min .
limited hydrolysis of trna by phosphodiesterase .
digestion of trna by electrophoretically pure phosphodiesterase is limited to a short sequence of nucleotides at the 3'-terminus .
on the average , four percent of all nucleotides can be released from trna .
the optimum mg2 concentration is 10mm and the optimum ph 9.2 .
the mode of action is a random attack by the enzyme on the substrate .
the terminal amp is completely removed at 15 degrees c after short incubation ; about 400 mol of amp were removed per min by 1 mol of enzyme .
the following cmp residues are released much more slowly ; at 15 degrees c incompletely , and at 37 degrees c more or less completely in 1 h .
in about 50 % of the trna molecules , the fourth nucleotide could be removed in very long incubations or with very high enzyme concentrations .
ecdysone oxidase , an enzyme from the blowfly calliphora erythrocephala ( meigen ) .
in the blowfly , the formation of 3-dehydroecdysone from the insect molting hormone ecdysone is catalyzed by an enzyme which carries hydrogen from ecdysone and ecdysterone to oxygen .
the enzyme is therefore called `` ecdysone oxidase '' .
two methods are described for the detection of ecdysone oxidase activity , one using a radiolabelled substrate which is separated from the product by thin-layer chromatography after the reaction , and the other using dichloroindophenol , which is discoloured by the redox reaction .
the ecdysone oxidase is purified by a factor of 2200 from prepupae of calliphora erythrocephala using salt precipitation and ion exchange chromatography .
the ecdysone oxidase has a km value for ecdysone of 42mum .
the ph optimum is 6.5 .
the temperature optimum lies at 45 degrees c .
the ecdysone oxidase has a molecular weight of 240000 .
using a hospital for desensitization of an outpatient's illness-related fears .
an outpatient with phobias related to enclosed places , hospitals , doctors , and cancer was treated by systematic desensitization ; the facilities of a general hospital were used for part of the process .
steps in treatment included securing a complete psychiatric and social history , teaching the patient relaxation therapy techniques , and establishing a hierarchy of anxiety-provoking stimuli specifically related to the patient's fears .
after desensitization the patient was able to enter the hospital for tests for a physical ailment and showed a general decrease in her fears .
analog computer for base excess and hco3-from ph and pco2 electrodes .
alcohol-related problems in a general hospital emergency room .
analysis of fatal blunt trauma presenting at an areawide trauma center .
surgical grand rounds : ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm .
the psychological reactions of children to burn traumata : a review .
ekg of the month .
relative severity of hemolysis in the subtypes of abo incompatible hemolytic disease .
the demise of the hopewellian moundbuilders : a plausible conjecture .
digitalis as treatment for pulmonary comsumption , 1799 .
aqueductal stenosis and parinaud's syndrome .
time , money and the housestaff officer .
mitral valve prolapse in sarcoid heart disease .
jaundice after enflurane anesthesia .
the psychological reactions of children to burn traumata : a review .
part ii .
azygos venous connection of anomalous inferior vena cava .
second primary lung tumors .
penetrating injuries of the thorax : certain aspects of treatment .
an improved gastrostomy technique .
basal cell epithelioma in smallpox vaccination scar-fifty years later .
the adolescent who has lost a significant other .
ekg of the month .
a small community blood bank frozen blood program .
twelve month report .
utilization and referral patterns in the acute illness department of a multispecialty clinic .
cardiovascular effects of beta-receptor stimulants in healthy volunteers .
isoelectric distribution of specifically purified rabbit antibody against 4-azo-naphthalene-1-sulfonate .
studies of hyperimmune restricted and partially restricted anti-pneumococcal polysaccharide antibodies from allotype-defined pedigreed rabbits -- iv .
amino-terminal light chain sequence analyses of restricted homozygous b4 rabbit anti-siii and sviii antibodies from partially inbred rabbits .
analysis of immunosuppression generated by the graft-versus-host reaction .
i. a suppressor t-cell component studied in vivo .
the kinetics and cellular characteristics of immunosuppression in ( cba-p x c57/bl ) f1 mice during graft-versus-host ( gvh ) reaction induced with spleen cells from either parental strain have been investigated .
effects on pfc responses to thymus-dependent ( chicken red blood cells ) and independent ( levan ) antigens have been compared .
the unresponsive state which developed in gvh mice was expressed to comparable extent by their spleen cells following transfer to irradiated recipients .
furthermore , gvh spleen cells suppressed normal spleen cells in a mixed transfer system , but this effect was lost completely by day 21 whereas the original donors ( or their cells ) were still totally refractory after 80 days .
this active suppressor effect was found to be mediated by t cells of perental origin based on cell fractionation analysis and selective deletion of donor or host cells by alloimmune attack .
the delayed transfer of gvh cells to irradiated repopulated recipients challenged with antigen , indicated that suppressor t cells exert an anti-mitotic influence on antigen-stimulated b-cell proliferation .
supplementation of macrophage-depleted , anti-theta-treated gvh spleen cells with purified normal t cells demonstrated that b cells in gvh mice are normally reactive even when active suppression by t cells is no longer demonstrable .
the likelihood that this later phase of immunosuppression is attributable to another mechanism is discussed .
schiff-type dyes in the cytochemical staining of dna .
response of alanine , tyrosine & leucine aminotransferases to dietary pyridoxine & protein in rat tissues .
a modified minimal medium for aspergillus nidulans .
pneumococcal type-associated variability in alternate complement pathway activation .
opsonization of streptococcus pneumoniae may be mediated by the alternate complement pathway .
to study the importance of this interaction to human disease , complement consumption by pneumococci of various serotypes was measured in humwn serum chelated with ethyleneglycoltraacetic acid , a substance that blocks the classic but not the alternate complement pathwway .
serotype i , in contrast to all other types studied , lacked ability to consume complement in this system .
the ability for serotypes iii , iv , and viii to activate the alternate pathway could be eliminated by prior serum absorption at o c with they type in question , a condition that would remove antibody but not complement .
types vii , xii , xiv , and xxv readily activated the alternate pathway in unabsorbed and absorbed sera .
differences could not be related to properties of the capsules .
it was concluded that types i , iii , iv , and viii lack intrinsic ability to activate and thus be opsonized by the alternate complement pathway , although types iii , iv , and viii can do so in concert with specific antibody .
the fact that these same types are especially prominent in human disease suggests that the ability to evade opsonization by the alternate complement pathway in pre-antibody phases of infection may be a virulence factor in pneumococci .
conditions for production , and some characteristics , of mycobacterial growth inhibitory factor produced by spleen cells from mice immunized with viable cells of the attenuated h37ra strain of mycobacterium tuberculosis .
mycobacterial growth inhibitory factor ( mycoif ) , found in supernatant fluids of mouse spleen cell cultures that have been stimulated in vitro with homologous antigen , inhibited the intracellular multiplication of virulent tubercle bacilli within normal mouse peritoneal macrophages in vitro .
antigenically stimulated h37ra-immunized mouse spleen cells required 72 h of incubation to produce supernatant fluids that would cause intracellular inhibition .
supernatant fluids from 48-h mouse spleen cell cultures were not able to produce intracellular inhibition .
investigation of the culture conditions showed that at lease 1.0 % human serum was required in the tissue culture medium for the production of mycoif by spleen cells from immunized mice .
mycoif activity was noted only in supernatant fluids from spleen cell cultures incubated with antigen for 72 h .
mycoif was nondialyzable and unaffected by freezing , lyophilization , or incubation at 60 c for 30 min .
however , mycoif was inactivated after incubation at 80 c for 30 min .
mycoif was unaffected by low hydrogen ion concentrations ( ph 7 to 12 ) , but exposure to higher hydrogen ion concentrations ( ph 6 , ph 5 ) significantly decrease mycoif activity , and exposure to ph 4 to 2 abolished all activity .
supernatant fluids diluted 1:32 were still able to produce significant intracellular inhibition of growth of virulent tubercle bacilli .
effect of pneumococci on blood clotting , platelets , and polymorphonuclear leukocytes .
infections due to streptococcus pneumoniae and products from the organism have been associated with alterations in blood clotting and function of platelets .
pneumococci and pneumococcal polysaccharide shortened the clotting times of whole blood , platelet-rich plasma ( prp ) , and platelet-poor plasma ( ppp ) in vitro .
clotting times of ppp and prp from c6-deficient animals were likewise decreased .
the bacteria had no effect on the one-stage prothrombin time or the partial thromboplastin time when the organisms were used as activating agents .
platelets aggregated in the presence of pneumococci , but aggregation was prevented by the addition of cyclic adenosine 3 ' , 5'-monophosphate ( camp ) .
furthermore , camp corrected the shortened clotting time of prp in the presence of pneumococci .
the clumping and release of polymorphonuclear coagulant that was induced by pneumococci was not prevented by camp .
thus , pneumococci exert several dose-dependent thromboplastic effects : ( i ) release of platelet thromboplastic substances ; ( ii ) a direct thromboplastic effect ; and ( iii ) release of polymorphonuclear coagulant .
some properties of a d-alanine carboxypeptidase in envelope fractions of neisseria gonorrhoeae .
envelope preparations of neisseria gonorrhoeae strain gc1 ( a stable , piliated strain of intermediate colony morphology ) and type t1 possess a d-alanine carboxypeptidase which releases the terminal alanine residue from the uridine 5'-diphosphate-n-acetyl muramylpentapeptide substrate ( isolated from bacillus cereus t ) .
the d-alanine carboxypeptidase of the gc1 envelopes has a broad ph optimum between ph 8.0 to 10.0 .
when the molarity of the tris ( hydroxymethyl ) aminomethane buffer was varied , the activity showed an optimum over the range 0.2 to 0.4 m .
activity was higher ( 135 % of control level ) when 20 to 80 mm mg2+ was present .
the km for the enzyme was 0.25 mm .
the d-alanine carboxypeptidase was inhibited by several beta-lactam antibiotics and the 50 % inhibitory levels were 10 ( -8 ) m penicillin g , 10 ( -8 ) m ampicillin , 10 ( -5 ) m cloxacillin , and 5 x 10 ( -7 ) m methicillin .
phenomenon of hot-cold hemolysis : chelator-induced lysis of sphingomyelinase-treated erythrocytes .
staphylococcus aureus produces a phospholipase c specific for sphingomyelin ( beta-hemolysin ) .
erythrocytes with approximately 50 % sphingomyelin in their membranes , e.g. , from sheep , have been shown to have up to 60 % of this phospholipid hydrolyzed by this enzyme at 37 c in isotonic buffered saline without hemolysis .
cooling of sphingomyelinase c-treated erythrocytes to 4 c causes complete lysis of the cells , a phenomenon known as hot-cold hemolysis .
the addition of ethylenediaminetetraacetate ( edta ) to sheep erythrocytes preincubated with sphingomyelinase c was found to induce rapid hemolysis at 37 c .
the treated cells became susceptible to chelator-induced hemolysis and to hot-cold hemolysis simultaneously , and the degree of lysis of both mechanisms increased equally with prolonged preincubation with sphingomyelinase c .
erythrocytes of species not readily susceptible to hot-cold hemolysis were equally insusceptible to chelator-induced lysis .
chelators of the edta series were the most effective , whereas chelators more specific for ca2+ , zn2+ , fe2+ , cu2+ , and mg2+ were without effect .
the rate of chelator-induced lysis was dependent on the preincubation period with beta-hemolysin and on the concentration of chelator added .
the optimal concentration of edta was found to equal the amount of exogenously added mg2+ , a cation necessary for sphingomyelinase c activity .
hypotonicity increased the rate of chelator-induced hemolysis , whereas increasing the osmotic pressure to twice isotonic completely inhibited chelator-induced lysis .
the data suggest that exogenously added and/or membrane-bound divalent cations are important for the stability of sphingomyelin-depleted membranes .
the phenomenon of hot-cold hemolysis may be a consequence of the temperature dependence of divalent ion stabilization .
host defense against the pneumococcus in t-lymphocyte-deficient , nude mice .
resistance to pneumococcal infection was tested in t-lymphocyte-deficient , nude ( nu/nu ) mice .
pneumococcal serum opsonizing activity , in vivo phagocytosis of the pneumococcus , and the mean lethal dose for the pneumococcus were all found to be the same in nude mice as in control ( +/+ ) mice .
t-lymphocytes do not appear to play a significant role in the host's defense against the pneumococcus .
[ the women do n't know how to talk in mexico ] .
in vitro antagonism of the mediators of allergy by a benzopyrano-benzopyran carboxylic acid pr-d-92-ea .
pr-d-92-ea was tested on isolated guinea pig ileum and rat stomach strips for activity against mediators probably released after allergen antibody union .
it antagonized the response produced by histamine , bradykinin , serotonin , prostaglandin e2 , prostaglandin f2alpha and slow-reacting substance of anaphylaxis ( srs-a ) .
the concentrations which blocked 50 % of the response were 150 , 145 , 92 , 70 , 47 , and 32 mug/ml , respectively .
this compound may be useful in the treatment of allergic conditions .
tyrosine aminotransferase induction in normal and tumor-bearing chickens .
tyrosine aminotransferase ( tat ) induction by glucagon and dexamethasone in the liver of tumor-bearing chickens was studied and compared with induction in healthy animals .
the transplantable tumor was caused by inoculation of cells from a cell line induced by mc29 avian leukosis virus .
tat was hardly detectable in tumor tissue of control and dexamethasone-treated chickens , but it was induced by glucagon to levels which were significant although very low when compared to those in host liver or the liver of non-tumor-bearing controls after glucagon treatment .
dexamethasone failed to induce tat in host liver at 8 a.m. while it significantly indiced tat in the normal liver at the same time of the day .
similar failure of tat induction was not detectable when glucagon was used instead of dexamethasone .
furthermore , it was found that diurnal variations in basal and dexamethasone or glucagon-induced tat levels are considerably mitigated in host liver as compared to those observed in the liver of healthy animals .
the possible reasons for these findings are discussed .
a behavior modification training program for staff working with drug addicts .
this paper described a behavior modification training program , emphasizing self-control , for staff working with drug addicts .
the program , which is primarily geared toward the training of paraprofessionals , takes place in ten 1-1/2 hour sessions and includes an overview of behavior modification as well as instruction in techniques of relaxation , desensitization , self-image improvement , behavior analysis , behavior control , assertive training , rational thinking , and how to set up and run similar behavior modification training programs for staff and patients .
since this training began at the new jersey neuropsychiatric institute in november 1971 , a total of 898 staff members , mostly paraprofessionals working with addicts , alcoholics , mentally ill patients , and inmates , including 53 from our own institution , 576 persons from other facilities in new jersey , and 269 from facilities in other states , have been trained , while 2,021 patients have been trained in similar programs .
most of this training has been accomplished by paraprofessionals .
preliminary evaluation data have been promising and the response of participants enthusiastic .
a kinetic study of the hydrolysis of n-acetyl dehydroalanine methyl ester .
hydrolysis rates of n-acetyl dehydroalanine methyl ester ( methyl 2-acetamidoacrylate ) and related model compounds were measured in aqueous , organic and mixed aqueous media .
adding dimethylsulfoxide ( dmso ) to water , retarded hydrolysis of the ester by a factor of 2 to 500 , depending on the ph of the medium and concentration of dmso .
ethanol also slowed hydrolysis , but the effect was not so pronounced .
related studies show that the acetamido group c-n bond of sodium 2-acetamido-acrylate is hydrolyzed only about 1/130 as fast as the ester group c-o bond .
aqueous dimethyl sulfoxide should by a useful medium for synthesis of peptide , amino acid and protein derivatives of n-acetyl dehydroalanine methyl ester .
the ophthalmologist's office : planning and practice .
patient traffic flow and use of paramedical personnel .
in order for the ophthalmologist to achieve the greatest earning power and personal satisfaction , he or she must devise traffic flow techniques that efficiently allow for maximum utilization of all examining areas and paramedical personnel in the office without dehumanizing patients .
by delegating as much responsibility as possible to staff , the ophthalmologist will have the opportunity of performing his or her specialized skills to the fullest extent , and therefore will achieve optimal personal gratification .
this emotional reward indemnifies the future of private practice , because it can exist only in the presence of a close patient-physician relationship , which is the cornerstone of the private practice of ophthalmology .
behaviour therapy and personality change .
computer evaluation of the effect of urecholine on the spontaneous activity of smooth muscle from the urinary bladder of the rabbit .
the spontaneous activity exhibited in vitro by smooth muscle strips from the urinary bladder of the rabbit under the influence of urecholine in concentrations from 0.3 to 30 mum has been characterized in terms of three parameters : mean tension , frequency of contraction , and contractile deviation , all obtained by computer an alysis .
while mean tension and frequency monotonically increased with concentration , the contractile deviation rose to a peak in the vicinity of 3.0 to 6.0 mum and thereafter decreased .
at concentrations less than 10 mum the contractile patterns were almost periodic , while at 10 and 30 mum , the patterns became highly erratic .
histologic examination of a limited number of tissues showed longitudinally oriented muscle bundles with multiple anastomosing .
characteristics of the non-occluded form of a nuclear polyhedrosis virus .
non-occluded virions of a nuclear polyhedrosis virus of the alfalfa looper , autographa californica , found in the medium of cell cultures of infected fall armyworm , spodopter frugiperda , and in the hemolymph of infected s. frugiperda larvae were partially characterized by biological , chemical and physical methods .
also , the rate of appearance of the virions was studied in cell culture and the host insect to determine maximum virion production .
virions obtained from both sources were heat-sensitive , acid-labile and inactivated by several organic solvents .
the non-occluded virions found in the insect cell culture fluid and in the hemolymph were identical , and both were enveloped nucleocapsids .
visualization of the fragilely enveloped nucleocapsid was accomplished only after fixation with glutaraldehyde .
differences between the non-occluded and occluded virions of nuclear polyhedrosis viruses are discussed .
degradation of myxovirus virion rna by periodate .
extensively degraded rna was isolated from virions of influenza virus which had been oxidized with sodium m-periodate .
similarly , although to a lesser extent , rna isolated from periodate-treated ribonucleoprotein of influenza virus was also degraded .
in contrast , influenza virus rna , if first freed from other virion components , was not degraded by periodate oxidation .
failure of rubella virus to replicate in mosquitos .
rubella virus failed to replicate in mosquitoes ( aedes albopictus and culex fatigans ) following parenteral inoculation .
the virus demonstrated in mosquitoes tested immediately after inoculation but was not detected in insects sampled 7 , 14 and 21 days postinoculation .
this experiment provides further evidence that rubella is not an arbovirus , but does not invalidate its classification as a togavirus .
treatment of severe hypertension with minoxidil .
minoxidil in daily doses of 6 to 40 mg was administered to 11 patients with severe hypertension .
two patients died of causes unrelated to the drug and one patient withdrew from the study .
blood pressure was controlled in the remaining eight subjects , who received the drug for periods ranging from 5 to 40 months .
in three patients minoxidil could subsequently be replaced by conventional antihypertensive therapy .
adverse effects of minoxidil included fluid retention ( as assessed by edema and plasma volume studies ) , nonspecific ecg changes , hypertrichosis and conjunctival redness .
concomitant administration of diuretic and beta-adrenergic blocking agents resulted in excellent tolerance of the treatment and high patient compliance .
the influence of injection route and ph value on the activity ratio of yttrium-90 to strontium-90 in the rat skeleton after 90sr incorporation .
medical approach to the hypotensive patient and the patient in shock .
acute renal failure .
acute renal failure is a life-threatening situation for which satisfactory treatment is currently available .
death is usually related to concomitant infection rather than uremia .
prompt recognition and treatment of underlying factors that predispose to renal insufficiency can frequently prevent the development of intrinsic acute renal failure .
[ parotid secretion and its pharmacologically induced variants ( author's transl ) ] .
the secretion of alpha-amylase and electrolytes by the parotid gland is now well understood and similarities exist in this respect between man and animals .
many modern drugs influence parotid secretion and morphology , and these are discussed .
analyses of rumen fluid from `` sudden death '' , lactic acidotic and healthy cattle fed high concentrate ration .
mitochondrial traits of muscle from stress-susceptible pigs .
local control of pulmonary resistance and lung compliance in the canine lung .
local control of pulmonary resistance and lung compliance was studied in the in situ left lower lobe of the canine lung .
recirculation of blood through the lobe while the pco2 of the ventilatory gas was varied resulted in an increase in resistance and a decrease in compliance only when the pulmonary venous ph was greater than 7.42 .
alternating sodium bicarbonate and lactic acid infusion while alveolar pco2 was maintained below 5 mmhg demonstrated the dependence of the hypocapnic response on the acid-base status of the blood perfusing the respiratory airways .
the increase in resistance and decrease in compliance observed at a pulmonary venous ph of 7.64 was comparable to that observed after lobar pulmonary artery occlusion .
varying degrees of hypoxia did not significantly affect bronchomotor tone , nor was the bronchoconstriction following lobar pulmonary artery occlusion affected by the hypoxia .
vagal stimulation superimposed on a stepwise increase in pulmonary venous ph from 7.32 to 7.62 resulted in an increase in resistance which paralleled the increase in resistance when pulmonary venous ph alone was increased .
compliance was not significantly affected by vagal stimulation at any level of pulmonary venous ph .
analysis of pesticides by chemical derivatization .
i. a new procedure for the formation of 2-chloroethyl esters of ten herbicidal acids .
a new esterification procedure was developed to form 2-chloroethyl esters for 10 common herbicidal acids , using dicyclohexyl carbodiimide and 2-chloroethanol .
this reagent was found to be more desirable than the commonly used boron trichloride/2-chloroethanol reagent .
maximum esterification was given for picloram at a lower reaction temperature with a shorter reaction time .
also , maximum esterification of dicamba and 2,3,6-tba was achieved .
the boron trichloride/2-chlorethanol gave poor or little esterification with these 2 acids under the various conditions investigated .
the effect of solvents on esterification with the 2 reagents was also explored .
irreversible drug induced parkinsonism ( two case reports ) .
inactivation of citrate lyase from rhodopseudomonas gelatinosa by a specific deacetylase and inhibition of this inactivation by l- ( +1-glutamate .
a previously unrecognized enzyme , citrate lyase deacetylase , has been purified about 140-fold from cell extracts of rhodopseudomonas gelatinosa .
it catalyzed the conversion of enzymatically active acetyl-s-citrate lyase into the inactive hs-form and acetate .
the enzyme exhibited an optimal rate of inactivation at ph 8.1 .
because of the instability of acetyl-s-citrate lyase at acidic and alkaline ph values , all assays were carried out at ph 7.2 , where the spontaneous hydrolysis of the acetyl-s-citrate lyase was negligible and deacetylase showed 70 % of the activity at ph 8.1 .
the apparent km value for citrate lyase was 10 ( -7 ) m at ph 7.2 and 30 c .
the activity of the deacetylase was restricted to the citrate lyase from r. gelatinosa .
the corresponding lyases from enterobacter aerogenes ( formerly klebsiella aerogenes ) and streptococcus diacetilactis were not deacetylated ; likewise , thioesters such as acetyl-s coenzyme a , acetoacetyl-s coenzyme a , and n-acetyl-s-acetyl-cysteamine were also not hydrolyzed .
citrate lyase deacetylase was present in very small amounts in cells of r. gelatinosa grown with acetate or succinate ; it was induced by citrate along with the citrate lyase .
l- ( + ) -glutamate strongly inhibited the deacetylase .
fifty percent inhibition was obtained at a concentration of 1.4 x 10 ( -4 ) l- ( + ) -glutamate .
d- ( - ) -glutamate , alpha-ketoglutarate , l-alpha-hydroxyglutarate , l- ( - ) -proline , and other metabolites were less effective .
novel type of murein transglycosylase in escherichia coli .
the purification and properties of a novel type of murein transglycosylase from escherichia coli are described .
the purified enzyme appears as a single band on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels and has an apparent molecular weight of approximately 65,000 as estimated by gel filtration and gel electrophoresis .
it degrades pure murein sacculi from e. coli almost completely into low-molecular-weight products .
the two prominent muropeptide fragments in the digest are the disaccharide-tripeptide n-acetylglucosamine-n-acetylmuramic acid-l-alanine-d-iso-glutamic acid-meso-diaminopimelic acid and the corresponding disaccharide-tetrapeptide n-acetylglucosamine-n-acetylmuramic acid-l-alanine-d-iso-glutamic acid-meso-diaminopimelic acid-d-alanine .
the unique feature of these compounds is that the disaccharide has no reducing end group and that the muramic acid residue possesses an internal 1 leads to 6 anhydro linkage .
the new lytic enzyme is designated as a murein : murein transglycosylase .
its possible role in the rearrangement of murein during cell growth and division is discussed .
formation and cleavage of 2-keto-3-deoxygluconate by 2-keto-3-deoxygluconate aldolase of aspergillus niger .
2-keto-3-deoxygluconate aldolase of aspergillus niger , an enzyme that has not been reported previously , was purified 468-fold .
maximal activity was obtained at ph 8.0 and 50 c .
the enzyme exhibited relative stereochemical specificity with respect to glyceraldehyde .
the km values for 2-keto-3-deoxygluconate , glyceraldehyde , and pyruvate were 10 , 13.3 , and 3.0 mm , respectively .
the effects of some compounds and inhibitors on enzyme activity were examined .
stability of the enzyme under different conditions was investigated .
the equilibrium constant was about 0.33 x 10 ( -3 ) m .
chemotaxis of a motile streptococcus toward sugars and amino acids .
a motile streptococcus was isolated and its chemotactic behavior toward sugars and amino acids was studied .
motility was optimal in the presence of an exogenous energy source and a nonionic detergent , e.g. , tween 80 or brij-36 .
both glucose and pyruvate could serve as energy source .
chemotaxis toward leucine was optimal at ph 7 to 8.5 and a temperature between 30 and 37 c .
the streptococcus showed a chemotactic response toward a variety of sugars .
all commonly occurring l-amino acids , except alanine , asparagine , aspartate , glutamate , arginine , and lysine , were attractants .
from concentration response curves the thresholds , peak concentrations , and optimal responses were determined .
phospholipase d activity of gram-negative bacteria .
a phospholipase hydrolyzing cardiolipin to phosphatidic acid and phosphatidyl glycerol was characterized in gram-negative bacteria but was absent in preparations of gram-positive bacteria , saccharomyces cerevisiae , and rat liver mitochondria .
in cell-free extracts of escherichia coli , salmonella typhimurium , proteus vulgaris , and pseudomonase aeruginosa , this cardiolipin-hydrolyzing enzyme had similar ph and mg2+ requirements and displayed a specificity which excluded phosphatidyl glycerol and phosphatidyl ethanolamine as substrates .
pyridine nucleotide-linked oxidation of methanol in methanol-assimilating yeasts .
an alcohol dehydrogenase linked to nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and requiring glutathione has been isolated and partially purified from two methanol-assimilating yeasts .
it differs from previously described methanol-oxidizing enzymes in ph optima , electron acceptor specificity , substrate specificity , inhibition pattern , and stability .
expression of the hut operons of salmonella typhimurium in klebsiella aerogenes and in escherichia coli .
the normal hut ( histidine utilization ) operons , as well as those with mutations affecting the regulation of their expression , of salmonella typhimurium were introduced on an f ' episome into cells of s. typhimurium and klebsiella aerogenes whose chromosomal hut genes had been deleted and into cells of escherichia coli , whose chromosome does not carry hut genes .
the episomal hut operons respond in a manner very similar to induction and catabolite repression in all three organisms .
the small differences found reflect both different abilities to take up inducers from the medium and different degrees of catabolite repression exerted by glucose .
regulation of the hut operons of salmonella typhimurium and klebsiella aerogenes by the heterologous hut repressors .
in merodiploid strains of klebsiella aerogenes with chromosomal hut genes of k. aerogenes and episomal hut genes of salmonella typhimurium , the repressor of either species can regulate the hut operons of the other species .
the repression exerted by the homologous repressor on the left-hand hut operon is , in both organisms , stronger than that exerted by the heterologous repressor .
transport of molybdate by clostridium pasteurianum .
the transport of 99moo42- into dinitrogen-fixing cells of clostridium pasteurianum was investigated .
transport of molybdate in this organism is energy dependent ; sucrose is required in the minimal media , and the system is inhibited by the glycolysis inhibitors , naf , iodoacetic acid , and arsenate .
the cells accumulate molybdate against a concentration gradient , and the uptake shows a marked dependence on temperature ( optimum 37 c ) and ph ( optimum 6.0 ) .
the rate of molybdate uptake with increasing molybdate concentrations shows saturation kinetics with an apparent km and vmax of 4.8 x 10 ( -5 ) m and 55 nmol/g of dry cells per min , respectively .
inhibition studies with the anions so42- , s2o32- , wo42- , and vo32- show that so42- and wo42- competitively inhibit moo42- uptake ( apparent ki [ so42- ] is 3.0 x 10 ( -5 ) m ; apparent ki [ wo42- ] is 2.4 x 10 ( -5 ) , whereas s2o32- and vo32- have no inhibitory effect .
exchange experiments with moo42- show that only a small percentage of the 99moo42- taken up by the cells is exchangeable .
exchange experiments with wo42- and so42- indicate that once inside the cells wo42- and so42- can not substitute for moo42- .
3-deoxy-d-arabino-heptulosonic acid 7-phosphate synthase mutants of salmonella typhimurium .
the first committed step of aromatic amino acid biosynthesis in salmonella typhimurium was shown to be catalyzed by three isoenzymes of 3-deoxy-d-arabino-heptulosonic acid 7-phosphate ( dahp ) synthase .
mutations in each of the genes specifying the isoenzymes were isolated and mapped .
arog , the structural gene for the phenylalanine-inhibitable isoenzyme , was linked to gal , and aroh , the structural gene for the tryptophan-inhibitable isoenzyme , was linked to aroe .
arof , the structural gene for the tyrosine-inhibitable isoenzyme , was linked to phea and tyra , which specify the phenylalanine- and tyrosine-specific branch-point enzymes , respectively .
the phenylalanine-inhibitable isoenzyme was the predominant dahp synthase in wild-type cells , and only the tryosine-inhibitable isoenzyme was completely repressed , as well as inhibited , by low levels of its allosteric effector .
the dahp synthase isoenzymes were separated by chromatography on diethylaminoethyl-cellulose with a phosphate gradient which contained enolpyruvate phosphate to protect the otherwise unstable phenylalanine-inhibitable isoenzyme .
no cross-inhibition of either the tyrosine- or phenylalanine-inhibitable isoenzyme was observed at inhibitor concentrations up to 1 mm .
the tryptophan-inhibitable isoenzyme was partially purified from extracts of a strain lacking the other two isoenzymes and shown to be inhibited about 30 % by 1 mm tryptophan .
a preliminary study of interference by tryptophan in the periodate-thiobarbiturate assay for dahp suggested a combined effect of tryptophan and erythrose 4-phosphate , or an aldehydic compound resulting from degradation of erythrose 4-phosphate by periodate .
membrane location of a deoxyribonuclease implicated in the genetic transformation of diplococcus pneumoniae .
the cellular localization of enzymes in diplococcus pneumoniae was examined by fractionation of spheroplasts .
a deoxyribonuclease implicated in the entry of deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) into the cell during genetic transformation was located in the cell membrane .
this enzyme , the major endonuclease of the cell ( endonuclease i ) , which is necessary for the conversion of donor dna to single strands inside the cell and oligonucleotides outside , thus could act at the cell surface .
another enzyme , the cell wall lysin ( autolysin ) , was also found in the membrane fraction .
other enzymes , including amylomaltase , two exonucleases , and adenosine triphosphate-dependent deoxyribonuclease , and a restriction type endonuclease , were located in the cytosol within the cell .
none of the enzymes examined were predominantly periplasmic in location .
spheroplasts were obtained spontaneously on incubation of pneumococcal cells in concentrated sugar solutions .
the autolytic enzyme appears to be involved in this process .
cells that were physiologically competent to take up dna formed osmotically sensitive spheroplasts two to three times faster than cells that were not in the competent state .
although some genetically incompetent mutants also formed spheroplasts more slowly , other such mutants formed them at the faster rate .
regulation of dihydrodipicolinate synthase during growth and sporulation of bacillus cereus .
a four- to sixfold increase in specific activity of dihydrodipicolinic acid synthase was observed during sporulation of bacillus cereus .
the enzyme from cells harvested before and after the increase in specific activity appeared to be very similar as judged by ph optima , heat denaturation kinetics , apparent michaelis constants , chromatography on diethylaminoethyl-cellulose and sephadex g-200 , and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
studies with various combinations of amino acids and one of the enzyme substrates , pyruvate , failed to give evidence for control of the enzyme by activation , inhibition , repression , induction , or stabilization .
omission of calcium from the sporulation medium had no significant effect on the specific activity pattern of the enzyme as a function of age of culture .
d-lactate dehydrogenase of peptostreptococcus elsdenii .
d-lactate dehydrogenase has been purified to near homogeneity from peptostreptococcus elsdenii .
as isolated , the enzyme contains flavine adenine dinucleotide and a tightly bound metal cofactor .
inactivation by ortho-phenanthroline occurs in two steps and is partially blocked by d-lactate .
reactivation by divalent metal ions occurs , with divalent zinc being the most effective .
when ferricyanide is used as the electron acceptor , d-lactate has an apparent k0.5 of 3.3 m0.46 ; its binding is negatively cooperative with a hill coefficient of 0.46 .
replacement of ferricyanide by the other components of the electron transport system yields hyperbolic kinetics with an apparent km for d-lactate of 26 mm .
the apparent km for ferricyanide is 2.2 x 10 ( -4 ) m .
phosphate and pyrophosphate compounds stimulate the d-lactate : ferricyanide activity .
these properties suggest that interaction of this enzyme with other electron transport proteins in the chain may enhance d-lactate binding and , hence , the rate of electron transport .
purification , new assay , and properties of coenzyme a transferase from peptostreptococcus elsdenii .
coenzyme a ( coa ) transferase from peptostreptococcus elsdenii has been purified and crystallized , and some of its properties have been established .
the work was facilitated by a newly developed coupled and continuous spectrophotometric assay in which the disappearance of added acrylate could be followed at 245 nm .
the rate-limiting conversion of acetyl- and beta-hydroxypropionyl coa to acrylyl coa by coa transferase was followed by the non-rate-limiting conversion to beta-hydroxypropionyl coa by excess crotonase .
thus , a small priming quantity of acetyl coa served to generate acrylyl coa , which , by hydration , generated beta-hydroxypropionyl coa .
this product then served to generate more acrylyl coa in cyclic fashion .
the net result was the coa transferase-limited conversion of acrylate to beta-hydroxypropionate .
the purified transferase has a molecular weight of 125,000 and is composed of two subunits of 63,000 each , as determined by disc gel electrophoresis .
short-chain-length monocarboxylic acids are substrates , whereas dicarboxylic or beta-ketocarboxylic acids are not .
the reaction kinetics are typical of a ping-pong bi bi mechanism composed of two half reactions linked by a covalent enzyme intermediate .
incubation of the transferase with acetyl coa in the absence of a fatty acid acceptor yielded a stable intermediate which , by absorption spectrophotometry , radioactivity measurements , reduction with borohydride , reactivity with hydroxylamine , and catalytic activity , was identified as an enzyme-coa compound .
kinetic constants for coa transferase are : final specific activity , 110 u/mg of protein corresponding to 1.38 x 10 ( 4 ) mumol of acrylate activated per mumol of transferase ; km for acrylate , 1.2 x 10 ( -3 ) m ; km for acetyl coa ( beta-hydroxypropionyl coa ) , 2.4 x 10 ( -5 ) m .
isolation and purification of flavobacterium alpha-1,3-glucanase-hydrolyzing , insoluble , sticky glucan of streptococcus mutans .
studies were made on the physical and chemical properties of polysaccharides synthesized by cell-free extracts of streptococcus mutans , streptococcus sanguis , and streptococcus sp. and their susceptibilities to dextranases .
among the polysaccharides examined , insoluble glucans were rather resistant to available dextranase preparations , and the insoluble , sticky glucan produced by s. mutans omz 176 , which could be important in formation of dental plaques , was the most resistant .
by enrichment culture of soil specimens , using omz 176 glucans as the sole carbon source , an organism was isolated that produced colonies surrounded by a clear lytic zone on opaque agar plates containing the omz 176 glucan .
the organism was identified as a strain of flavobacterium and named the ek-14 bacterium .
ek-14 bacterium was grown in trypticase soy broth , and an enzyme capable of hydrolyzing the omz 176 glucan was concentrated from the culture supernatant and purified by negative adsorption on a diethylaminoethyl-cellulose ( de-32 ) column and gradient elution chromatography with a carboxymethyl-cellulose ( cm-32 ) column .
the enzyme was a basic protein with an isoelectric point of ph 8.5 and molecular weight of 65,000 .
its optimum ph was 6.3 and its optimal temperature was 42 c .
the purified enzyme released 11 % of the total glucose residues of the omz 176 glucan as reducing sugars and solubilized about half of the substrate glucan .
the products were found to be isomaltose , nigerose , and nigerotriose , with some oligosaccharides .
the purified enzyme split the alpha-1,3-glucan endolytically and was inactive toward glucans containing alpha-1,6 , alpha-1,4 , beta-1,3 , beta-1,4 , and/or beta-1,6 bonds as the main linkages .
production , purification , and characterization of an extracellular chitosanase from streptomyces .
the synthesis by streptomyces sp. no. 6 of an extracellular chitosanase was induced by glucosamine .
the enzyme was purified to homogeneity by sephadex g-100 , carboxymethyl-cellulose , and diethylaminoethyl-cellulose chromatography .
the purified enzyme hydrolyzed chitosan ( the beta-1,4-linked polymer of glucosamine ) but not chitin nor carboxymethyl-cellulose .
the only products of the hydrolysis detectable by paper chromatography were di- and triglucosamine .
sephadex g-100 chromatography and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated that the molecular weight of the enzyme was between 29,000 and 26,000 .
acid hydrolysates of the enzyme contained no cysteic acid or glucosamine or other carbohydrate .
at 25 c , maximum activity was obtained between ph 4.5 and 6.5 .
the enzymatic hydrolysis of chitosan occurred over a wide range of temperatures and was maximal at 60 c .
the rate of the reaction was inhibited by concentrations of soluble chitosan higher than 0.5 g/liter .
the apparent km calculated from a lineweaver-burke plot was 0.688 g/liter at ph 5.5 .
the enzyme prevented spore germination and caused a significant decrease in the turbidity of germinated spore suspensions of the mucor strains tested .
such a decrease was the result of a partial lysis of the cell wall .
simple and sensitive procedure for screening yeast mutants that lyse at nonpermissive temperatures .
after mutagenesis , surviving yeast cells are grown on plates at 25 c and later exposed to 37 c .
the plates are then overlaid with a soft agar containing p-nitrophenylphosphate at ph 9.7 .
lysed cells liberate alkaline phosphatase which gives rise to a yellow color on and around colonies .
a nucleoside triphosphate-dependent deoxyribonuclease from bacillus laterosporus .
purification and characterization of the enzyme .
a deoxyribonuclease , which requires nucleoside triphosphate for reaction , has been purified about 150-fold from extracts of bacillus laterosporus .
potassium phosphate and ethylene glycol stabilize the purified enzyme .
the enzyme degrades double-stranded dna about 100 times faster than heat-denatured dna in the presence of nucleoside triphosphate .
double-stranded dna is not degraded to any measurable extent in the absence of atp , but the enzyme exhibits activity toward denatured dna in the absence of nucleoside triphosphate , and this activity seems to be an intrinsic property of this enzyme protein .
the optimum ph is 8.5 and the maximum activity is obtained in the copresence of mg2+ ( 8.0 x 10 ( -3 ) m ) and mn2+ ( 7.0 x 10 ( -5 ) m ) .
atp and datp are most effective and nucleoside di- or monophosphates are ineffective .
atp is converted to adp and inorganic phosphate during the reaction and the ratio of the amount of atp cleaved to that of hydrolyzed phosphodiester bonds of dna is about 3:1 .
an inhibitor of the enzyme was observed in bacterial extracts prepared by sonic disruption ; the inhibitory substance is produced in the bacteria in the later stages of cell growth .
preliminary results show that the inhibitor emerged near the void volume of a sephadex g-200 column , and was relatively heat-stable , rnase-resistant , and dnase-sensitive .
rapid radioimmunoassay for guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate using tritiated ligand .
a radioimmunoassay procedure for guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate ( cgmp ) is described .
the procedure is based on competitive binding between [ 3h ] cgmp and non-radioactive cgmp , with separation of bound and unbound cgmp by millipore filtration .
the binding reaction showed very high specificity to cgmp , had a broad ph optimum , and reached equilibrium within a short time .
a simple procedure for the pruification of assay samples using dowex ag 50w-x2 resin is also described .
cgmp contents in urine samples were assayed without purification .
injection of glucagon into healthy human volunteers resulted in a small but significant reduction in urinary cgmp level , whereas camp excretion increased dramatically .
the effect of tryptophan administration on fatty acid synthesis in the livers of rats under various nutritional conditions .
1. tryptophan was administered to rats under various nutritional conditions : fasted for 24 hr , fasted and refed with glucose or corn-oil , fasted and administered glycerol intramuscularly , and nonfasted .
2. the changes in the contents of glycolytic intermediates in the livers indicated that the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase [ ec 4.1.1.32 ] reaction is inhibited by tryptophan administration in all groups of rats .
the inversely related changes in the contents of malate and phosphoenolpyruvate were associated with the accumulation of quinolinate in the livers .
the content of quinolinate which exhibited the half-maximal effect on the contents of both metabolites was 0.1-0.2 mumole per g liver .
3. the rate of incorporation of 3h from 3h2o into the total hepatic fatty acids was increased about 2-fold by the administration of this amino acid to the fasted rats .
the enhancement of the rate was closely related to the increase in the citrate content .
the hyperlipogenesis was also related to the decrease of acetyl-coa and the increase of malonyl-coa .
the content of long-chain acyl-coa was not affected .
these effects of tryptophan administration on the hepatic fatty acid metabolism were found in all groups of rats .
the liver content of glycerol 3-phosphate was decreased by tryptophan administration was markedly increased by glycerol injection .
the injection of glycerol into the control and the tryptophan-treated rats produced a marked increase of glycerol 3-phosphate but did not affect the rate of fatty acid synthesis in the livers of either group .
4. it may be concluded that , in the livers of rats under various nutritional conditions , the short-term control of fatty acid synthesis by tryptophan administration is most likely due to the activation of acetyl-coenzyme a carboxylase [ ec 6.4.1.2 ] by citrate .
electrophoretic investigations of the acid conformational change of alpha-lactalbumin .
in order to clarify how the electrophoretic behavior reflects the conformational transition of globular proteins , moving boundary electrophoresis was applied to analysis of the acid conformational change of alpha-lactalbumin .
the appearance of only a single electrophoretic boundary in the transition region of the protein suggests a very rapid transition with a half-time estimated to be smaller than 7 min on the basis of the theory of isomerizing systems in electrophoresis .
the transition is clearly reflected in the dependence of the mobility on the protein net charge , which shows a sigmoidal curve closely similar to that obtained by a linderstrom-lang ph-tritration plot for the carboxyl groups of alpha-lactalbumin .
it was also concluded from the transition curves that the acidfication does not result in complete unfolding , but that a compact structure is maintained in the acidic region with an apparently expanded form as compared to the native state of the protein .
all results obtained by electrophoresis were also supported by the results of ph-jump studies , analytical gel chromatography , and cd measurements .
studies on cathepsins of rat liver lysosomes .
ii .
comparative studies on multiple forms of cathepsin a .
the multiple forms of cathepsin a ( ai , aii , and aiii ) purified from the lysosome fraction of rat liver by sephadex g-200 and deae-sephadex chromatographies were studied comparatively .
forms ai , aii and aiii were stable between ph 3.0 and 5.5 , and had ph optima for cbz-glu-phe at 5.6 , 5.8 , and 5.9 , respectively .
these activities were rapidly lost on heating above 60 degrees .
their isoelectric points were at 4.7 , 4.8 , and 4.9 , and the michaelis constants for cbz-glu-phe were calculated as 10 , 6.6 , and 4.2 x 10 ( -4 ) m , respectively .
activity was inhibited by ag+ , au3+ , hg2+ , iodine , and p-chloromercuribenzoate ( pcmb ) .
diisopropyl fluorophosphate ( dfp ) , phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride ( pmsf ) , toluenesuffonyl fluoride ( tsf ) , and sodium dodecyl sulfate ( sds ) were inhibitory at a concentration of 10 ( -3 ) m .
soybean trypsin inhibitor , pepstatin , leupeptins , and antipain were not inhibitory , while chymostatin caused slight inhibition .
no distinct difference was observed in the effects of these compounds on the multiple forms of cathepsin a despite differences in the molecular weights of these forms ( 100,000 , 200,000 , and 420,000 , respectively ) .
in immuno-diffusion analysis , cathepsin ai , aii , and aiii which had been treated with edta , dithiothreitol , pcmb , and a high concentration of nacl , gave the same precipitin patterns as the untreated enzymes , but treatment with 6 m urea caused a slight alteration of the pattern .
after sds-treatment ( 50 mm or more ) , the precipitin lines of these multiple forms fused and gave a single , identical line .
this suggests that the different forms of the cathepsin a are all composed of subunits which are immunologically identical or closely related , and that the subunits are mainly bound by hydrophobic forces .
this conclusion is supported by results obtained by poliacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sds .
recombination of ciliary dynein of tetrahymena with the outer fibers .
recombination of ciliary dyneins of tetrahymena pyriformis with the outer fibers was investigated using turbidimetry , co-sedimentation analysis and electron microscopy .
as reported by gibbons , 30s dynein could recombine with the outer fibers , while 14s dynein did to so a lesser extent .
at acidic ph , however , most of the 14s dynein was also rebound to the outer fibers .
when an excess of crude dynein fraction was added to the outer fiber fraction at ph 8.2 , electron microscopic observations showed that the outer doublet microtubules were decorated not only with arms but also with other electron-dense materials .
on the other hand , when crude dynein fraction was mixed with the outer fibers in an appropriate quantity , only arms were reconstituted at the regular positions of a-subfibers .
atp had an inhibitory effect on the recombination of dynein with the outer fibers .
affinity labeling of d-amino acid oxidase with an acetylenic substrate .
the acetylenic substrate , d-2-amino-4-pentynoic acid ( d-propargylglycine ) , was oxidatively deaminated by hog kidney d-amino acid oxidase [ ec 1.4.3.3 ] , with accompanying inactivation of the enzyme .
the flavin which was extracted by hot methanol from the inactivated enzyme was identical with authentic fad by thin-layer chromatography and circular dichroism .
the excitation spectrum of emission at 520 nm of the released flavin was very similar to the absorption spectrum of oxidized fad .
the released flavin was reduced by potassium borohydride .
the apoenzyme prepared after propargylglycine treatment did not show restored d-amino acid oxidase activity on adding exogenous fad .
the absorption spectrum of this inactivated apoenzyme showed absorption peaks at 279 and 317 nm , and a shoulder at about 290 nm .
these results strongly indicate that the inactivation reaction is a dynamic affinity labeling with d-propargylglycine which produces irreversible inactivation of the enzyme by a covalent modification of an amino acid residue at the active site .
studies on trypsin inhibitor in barley .
i. purification and some properties .
to clarify the properties and functions of a trypsin inhibitor from japanese barley in comparison with the inhibitor from pirkka barley , an inhibitor was isolated from the barley hordeum distichum l var. emend lamark by extraction with 1 % nacl , ammonium sulfate fractionation and repeated chromatography on deae-cellulose and cm-cellulose .
the final purified preparation of the inhibitor was found to be homogeneous by both chromatographic and electrophoretic analysis .
the inhibitor was thermostable and was stable over the broad ph range from 2 to 11 .
no inhibition was observed by heavy metal ions and many reagents at 10 ( -2 ) m , except that p-chloromercuribenzoate caused a 69 % loss of activity .
the inhibitor was subjected to isoelectric focusing at ph 7.51 and its molecular weight was calculated to be 14,200+/-900 by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate .
the apparent dissociation constant for the complex between the inhibitor and trypsin [ ec 3.4.21.4 ] was 1.64 x 10 ( -7 ) m with casein as a substrate .
one microgram of purified inhibitor inhibited 1.5 mug of pure trypsin in the hydrolysis of alpha-n-benzoyl-dl-arginine-p-nitroanilide .
by chemical modification of arginyl residues in the inhibitor with 1,2-cyclohexanedione , the inhibitor was shown to be an arginine inhibitor .
the inhibitor contained relatively many basic amino acids and few half cystines as compared with pirkka barley trypsin inhibitor .
metabolism of dog gastric mucosa .
nucleotide levels in parietal cells .
adenine and pyridine nucleotide levels as well as those of phosphate , phosphocreatine , lactate , pyruvate , beta-hydroxybutyrate , acetoacetate , glucose , and glycogen were measured in histologically defined parietal and mucous cell sections of biopsies of dog gastric mucosa at rest , and in various secretory states .
as a result of stimulation of secretion , there appeared to be no change in adenine nucleotide levels , or phosphocreatine , but there was a rise in inorganic phosphate and a fall in phosphorylation potential .
however , there was a marked increase in nadh , but no change in nadph with onset of acid secretion .
the increase in the lactate to pyruvate ratio showed that the increased nadh level occurred in the cytoplasm and these data are discussed with reference to change in cell ph .
metal ion dependence of the binding of triiodothyronine by cytosol proteins of bullfrog tadpole tissues .
the binding of triiodothyronine by rana catesbeiana tadpole tail fin , tail muscle , kidney , and liver cytosol was studied using dextran-coated charcoal to separate bound and free hormone .
a metal ion dependency was suggested by the fact that edta decreased the binding of triiodothyronine 80 to 90 % in tail fin and tail muscle cytosol .
inhibition of binding in kidney or liver was less , 40 to 50 % .
this inhibition could be restored by adding an excess of divalent cations with an order of potency of mn2+ greater than ca2+ congruent to co2+ greater than sr2+ greater than ba2+ greater than mg2+ .
other chelators , e.g. o-phenanthroline , 8-hydroxyquinoline , and ethylene glycol bis ( beta-aminoethylether ) -n , n'-tetraacetate also decreased the binding of triiodothyronine , whereas citrate , oxalate , imidazole , and glycine had no effect .
the triiodothyronine binding capacity of tail fin cytosol was reduced by edta treatment and dialysis against buffer .
ca2+ in the 1 to 10 mm range and mn2+ at 1 mm could restore the binding to normal levels .
higher mn2+ increased binding 70 % above normal or to ca2+-restored levels .
the triiodothyronine cytosol binding activity was nondialyzable , heat-labile .
ph-dependent , pronase-digestible , but unaffected by incubation with trypsin , rnase , and dnase , suggesting that the cytosol binding sites are acidic proteins .
scatchard analysis of triiodothyronine binding by the cytosol of different tissues , revealed kassoc of 7.1 x 10 ( 6 ) m ( -1 ) , 11.6 x 10 ( 6 ) m ( -1 ) , 3.6 x 10 ( 6 ) m ( -1 ) , and 68.0 x 10 ( 6 ) m ( -1 ) for tail fin , tail muscle , kidney , and liver cytosol , respectively .
the corresponding maximal binding capacities in picomoles per mg of crude cytosol protein in these four tissues were 10.4 , 0.86 , 1.3 , and 0.04 , respectively .
the active form of cytochrome p-450 from bovine adrenocortical mitochondria .
cytochrome p-450 from bovine adrenocortical mitochondria exists in three forms of molecular weight : 850,000 ( protein 16 ) , of one-half ( protein 8 ) , and of one-quarter of this value ( protein 4 ) .
the forms of the enzyme are named according to the number of subunits and all appear to be active in converting cholesterol to 3beta-hydroxy-5-pregnen-20-one ( side chain cleavage ) ( shikita , m. , and hall , p.f. ( 1973 ) j. biol. chem. 248 , 5606 ) .
to determine whether all three forms are active at their characteristic molecular weights , the three cytochromes were each layered onto separate sucrose density gradients and centrifuged at 49,000 rpm for 60 min ; the gradients contained all the factors necessary for side chain cleavage including one of the following substrates : cholesterol , 20s-hydroxycholesterol , and 20s,22r-dihydroxycholesterol .
regardless of the form of p-450 layered onto the gradient and regardless of the substrate , enzyme activity ( side chain cleavage ) was observed only in fractions corresponding to a sedimentation coefficient of 20 to 22 s which is that for protein 16 .
no activity was observed at s values corresponding to either protein 8 or protein 4 .
these findings indicate that the active form of cytochrome p-450 from adrenocortical mitochondria is that containing 16 subunits , i.e. the form in which the cytochrome is normally isolated from adrenal mitochondria .
forms consisting of eight and four subunits which can be prepared from protein 16 become active only by forming protein 16 , at least in an aqueous medium in vitro .
effects of strong electrolyte upon the activity of clostridium perfringens sialidase toward sialyllactose and sialoglycolipids .
clostridium perfringens sialidase was purified by affinity chromatography .
kinetic properties of the enzyme were examined with sialyllactose and with mixed sialoglycolipids ( gangliosides ) as substrates .
with the latter substrate in 0.01 m tris-acete in the absence of strong electrolyte , the ph optimum for enzymatic activity was 6.8 .
addition of strong electrolyte ( 0.01 to 0.10 m nac1 ) to the reaction medium caused an acidic shift and a broadening of the ph optimum , enzymatic activity at ph 5.8 rose approximately 2.5-fold ; a concomitant loss of activity at ph 6.8 was also observed .
the alteration of enzymatic activity caused by strong electrolyte were dependent upon changes in vmax .
km remained nearly invariant .
thus , a reversible transition of the enzyme from a relatively inactive to a highly active form occurred as a function of strong electrolyte concentration .
determination of the pk values of the active functional groups of c. perfringens sialidase revealed that the effects of strong electrolyte were exerted upon the pka group of the enzyme .
strong electrolyte appeared to shield unfavorable electrostatic interactions between polyanionic sialoglycolipid micelles and the enzyme molecule , thus protecting the pka group from inactivation .
in comparision with the effects of strong electrolyte upon enzymatic activity toward the sialoglycolipid substrate , those observed with the monovalent substrate , sialyllacthose , were minor .
collectively , these findings indicate that ionic environment may effectively control the activity and relative substrate specificity of c. perfringens sialidase at a given ph .
furthermore , they explain the low ph optima and skewed ph profiles previously reported for enzymatic activity toward high molecular weight substrates .
reconstitution of ion transport and respiratory control in vesicles formed from reduced coenzyme q-cytochrome c reductase and phospholipids .
reduced coenzyme q-cytochrome c reductase from bovine heart mitochondria ( complex iii ) was incorporated into phospholipid vesicles by the cholate dialysis procedure .
soybean phospholipids or mixtures of purified phosphatidylcholine , phosphatidylethanolamine , and cardiolipin could be used .
oxidation of reduced coenzyme q2 by the reconstituted vesicles with cytochrome c as oxidant showed the following energy-coupling phenomena .
1. protons were translocated outward with a coupling ratio , h+/2e , of 1.9 +/- 0.2 .
measurements with mitochondria under similar conditions showed an h+/2e ratio of 1.8 .
proton translocation was not seen in the presence of uncoupling agents and was in addition to the net acidification of the medium from the over-all oxidation reaction .
2. potassium ions were taken up by the reconstituted vesicles in the presence of valinomycin in a reaction coupled to electron transfer .
the coupling ratio for k+ uptake , k+/2e , was 2.0 in the vesicles and approximately 1.5 in mitochondria .
3. the rate of oxidation of reduced coenzyme q2 by the reconstituted vesicles was stimulated up to 10-fold by uncouplers or by valinomycin plus nigericin and k+ ions .
addition of valinomycin alone in a k+ medium caused a transient stimulation of electron transfer .
the results indicate that energy coupling can be observed with isolated reduced coenzyme q-cytochrome c reductase if the enzyme complex is properly incorporated into a phospholipid vesicle .
ion transport and respiratory control in vesicles formed from reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide coenzyme q reductase and phospholipids .
nadh-coenzyme q reductase from bovine heart mitochondria ( complex i ) was incorporated into phospholipid vesicles by the cholate dialysis procedure .
mixtures of purified phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine were required .
oxidation of nadh by coenzyme q1 catalyzed by the reconstituted vesicles was coupled to proton translocation , directed inward , with an h+/2e ratio greater than 1.4 .
similar experiments measuring proton translocation in submitochondrial particles gave an h+/2e ratio of 1.8 .
the proton translocation in both systems was not seen in the presence of uncoupling agents and was in addition to the net proton uptake from the reduction of coenzyme q1 by nadh .
electron transfer in the reconstituted vesicles also caused the uptake of the permeant anion tetraphenylboron .
the rate of electron transfer by the reconstituted vesicles was stimulated about 3-fold by uncouplers or by valinomycin plus nigericin and k+ ions .
the results indicate that energy coupling can be observed with isolated nadh-coenzyme q reductase if the enzyme complex is properly incorporated into a phospholipid vesicle .
sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase activity in particulate preparations from anaerobic , light-grown cells of rhodopseudomonas spheroides .
involvement of acyl thiolester derivatives of acyl carrier protein in the synthesis of complex lipids .
crude particulate preparations obtained from anaerobic , light-grown cells of rhodopseudomonas spheroides have been shown to possess a significant level of sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase ( ec 2.3.1.15 ) activity .
in contrast to the enzyme from escherichia coli , the r. spheroides glycerophosphate acyltransferase has a high specificity for acyl thiolester derivatives of acyl carrier protein ( acp ) as acyl donors for the reaction .
only limited , nonlinear glycerophosphate incorporation into lipid occurs when acyl coenzyme a ( coa ) derivatives are employed as acyl substrate .
with oleyl-acp as substrate , maximal enzyme activity was observed at 40 degrees , over a broad ph range ( 6.0 to 8.5 ) and did not require a divalent metal cation .
the presence of dithiothreitol stimulated enzyme-activity 15 to 20 % .
when oleyl-acp or palmityl-acp was employed as sole acyl group donor , the major products recoverable from the reaction mixtures were lysophosphatidic acid , phosphatidic acid , and monoglyceride .
althouh oleyl-acp and palmityl-acp gave comparable maximal velocities in the initial acylation of glycerophosphate , the formation of phosphatidic acid occurred preferentially with the unsaturated acyl-acp derivative .
studies on thyroid hormone-binding proteins .
i. the subunit structure of human thyroxine-binding globulin and its interaction with ligands .
thyroxine-binding globulin was isolated from human plasma by ammonium sulfate fractionation , chromatographic separations on diethylaminoethyl-sephadex , gel chromatography , and two different electrophoretic procedures .
the highly purified was homogeneous when subjected to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis , ultracentrifugation analyses , and immunochemical determinations .
the weight average molecular weight as determined by sedimentation equilibrium ultracentrifugations was 54,000 and by sedimentation diffusion data 55,000 .
amino acid analyses indicated a minimum of 110 amino acid residues per molecule .
by determination of the minimum in the curve for the fraction of maximum deviation from the amino acid analyses it was found that the minimum molecular weight for the polypeptide was 12,200 .
carbohydrate analyses demonstrated the presence f equimolar amounts of amnnose , galactose , and glucosamine , and the carbohydrate portion constituted 7.5 % of the total weight .
the amino acid analyses suggested that thyroxine-binding globulin is composed of 4 subunits .
molecular weight determinations by gel chromatography in 6 m guanidine hydrochloride indicated the presence of three species of globulin with apparent molecular weights 52,000 , 25,000 , and 13,500 , respectively .
prolonged storage in guanidine hydrochloride promoted a more than 60 % yield of the monomeric species .
moreover , a half-molecule of thyroxine-binding globulin was isolated and shown to consist of two polypeptide chains of similar molecular weight ...
structural studies of two ovalbumin glycopeptides in relation to the endo-beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase specificity .
heterogeneities of the two ovalbumin glycopeptides , ( man ) 5 ( glcnac ) 2asn and ( man ) 6 ( glcnac ) 2asn , were revealed by borate paper electrophoresis of oligosaccharide alcohols obtained from the glycopeptides by endo-beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase h digestion and nab3h4 reduction .
the structures of the major components of the oligosaccharides were determined by the combination of methylation analysis , acetolysis , and alpha-mannosidase digestion .
based on the results , the whole structures of the major components of ( man ) 5 ( glcnac ) 2asn and ( man ) 6 ( glcnac ) 2asn were elucidated as manalpha1 leads to 6 [ manalpha1 leads to 3 ] -manalpha1 leads to 6 [ manalpha1 leads to 3 [ manbeta1 leads to 4glcnacbeta1 leads to 4glcnac leads to asn and manalpha1 leads to 6 [ manalpha1 leads to 3 ] manalpha1 leads to 6 [ manalpha1 leads to 2manalpha1 leads to 3 ] manbeta1 leads to 4glcnacbeta1 leads to glcnac leads to asn , respectively .
since endo-beta-n-acetylglucosamini dase d hydrolyzes ( man ) 5 ( glcnac ) 2asn but not ( man ) 6 ( glcnac ) 2asn , the presence of the unsubstituted alpha-mannosyl residue linked at the c-3 position of the terminal mannose of manbeta1 leads to 4glcnacbeta1 leads to 4 glcnacasn core must be essential for the action of the enzyme .
use of 5-deazafad to study hydrogen transfer in the d-amino acid oxidase reaction .
the apoprotein of hog kidney d-amino acid oxidase was reconstituted with 5-deazaflavin adenine dinucleotide ( 5-deazafad ) to yield a protein which contains 1.5 mol of 5-deazafad/mol of enzyme .
the deazafad-containing enzyme forms complexes with benzoate , 2-amino benzoate , and 4-aminobenzoate which are both qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those observed with native enzyme .
the complex with 2-aminobenzoate exhibits a new long wavelength absorption band characteristic of a flavin charge-transfer complex .
the reconstituted enzyme exhibits no activity when assayed by d-alanine oxidation .
however , the bound chromophore can be reduced by alanine , phenylalanine , proline , methionine , and valine , but not by glutamate or aspartate , indicating the deazafad enzyme retains the substrate specificity of the native enzyme .
reduction of the enzyme by d-alanine exhibits a 1.6-fold deuterium isotope effect .
reoxidation of the reduced enzyme occurred in the presence of pyruvate plus ammonia , but not with pyruvate alone or ammonia alone .
beta-phenylpyruvate and alpha-ketobutyrate , but not alpha-ketoglutarate could replace pyruvate .
reduced enzyme isolated following reaction with [ alpha-3h ] alanine was found to contain 0.5 mol of tritium/mol of deazafadh2 .
after denaturation of the tritium-labeled enzyme , the radioactivity was identified as deazafadh2 .
reaction of the reduced tritium-labeled enzyme with pyruvate plus ammonia prior to denaturation yields [ alpha-3h ] alanine and unlabeled deazafad .
these results suggest that reduction and reoxidation of enzyme-bound deazafad involves the stereo-specific transfer of alpha-hydrogen from substrate to deazafad .
the nsila-s receptor in liver plasma membranes .
characterization and comparison with the insulin receptor .
nsila-s ( nonsuppressible insulin-like activity , soluble in acid ethanol ) is a serum peptide that has insulin-like and growth-promoting activities .
we have demonstrated previously that liver plasma membranes possess separate receptors for nsila-s and insulin and have characterized the insulin receptor in detail .
in the present study we have characterized the properties and specificity of the nsila-s receptor and compared them to those of the insulin receptor in the same tissue .
both 125i-nsila-s and 125i-insulin bind rapidly and reversibly to their receptors in liver membranes ; maximal nsila-s binding occurs at 20 degrees while maximal insulin binding is seen at 1-4 degrees .
the ph optimum for nsila-s binding is broad ( 6.0 to 8.0 ) , in contrast to the very sharp ph optimum ( 7.5 to 8.0 ) for insulin binding .
both receptors exhibit a high degree of specificity .
with the insulin receptor , nsila-s and insulin analogues compete for binding in proportion to their insulin-like potency : insulin greater than proinsulin greater than nsila-s .
with the nsila-s receptor , nsila-s is most potent and the order is reversed : nsila-s greater than proinsulin greater than insulin .
furthermore , six preparations of nsila-s which varied 70-fold in biological activity competed for 125i-nsila-s binding in order of their potencies .
nsila-s which had been inactivated biologically by reduction and aminoethylation and growth hormone were less than 1/100,000 as potent as the most purified nsila-s preparation .
purified preparations of fibroblast growth factor , epidermal growth factor , nerve growth factor , and somatomedins b and c were less than 1 % as effective as nsila-s in competing for the 125i-nsila-s suggesting that these factors act through other receptors .
in contrast , somatomedin a was 10 % as active as nsila-s and multiplication-stimulating activity was fully as active as nsila-s in competing for the nsila-s receptor .
analysis of the data suggests that there are approximately 50 times more insulin receptors than nsila-s receptors per liver cell , while the apparent affinity of nsila-s receptors is somewhat higher than that of the insulin receptor .
decarboxylation of oxalacetate to pyruvate by purified avian liver phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase .
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase , which has been isolated from chicken liver mitochondria in essentially homogenous form , carries out the irreversible decarboxylation of oxalacetate to pyruvate in the presence of catalytic amounts of gdp or idp , as well as the reversible decarboxylation of oxalacetate to phosphoenolpyruvate in the presence of substrate amounts of gtp or itp .
the pyruvate- and phosphoenolpyruvate-forming reactions are similar in their nucleoside specificity and appear to be carried out by the same protein .
however , the two activities vary markedly in their response to added metal ions and sulfhydryl reagents .
phosphoenolpyruvate formation is completely dependent on the presence of a divalent metal ion , with mn2+ the most effective species .
this reaction is also stimulated by sulfhydryl reagents such as 2-mercaptoethanol .
in contrast , the pyruvate-forming reaction is strongly inhibited by divalent metal ions , including mn2+ , and also by moderate concentrations of sulfhydryl reagents .
these observations and the demonstration that pyruvate kinase-like activity is very low or absent make it unlikely that pyruvate formation proceeds via phosphoenolpyruvate as an intermediate .
although the pyruvate-forming reaction is inhibited by added metal ions , the reaction is also inhibited by metal-chelating agents such as 8-hydroxyquinoline and o-phenanthroline , suggesting that the reaction is dependent on the presence of a metal ion .
it has not been possible , however , to demonstrate that the enzyme is a metalloprotein .
hemoglobin deer lodge ( beta 2 his replaced by arg ) .
consequences of altering the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate binding site .
hemoglobin deer lodge is an abnormal human hemoglobin with arginine substituted for histidine at the beta 2 position .
x-ray crystallography of normal human hemoglobin has shown that the beta 2 residue is normally part of the binding site for 2,3-diphosphoglycerate .
the substitution of arginine for histidine at beta 2 affects both the kinetics and equilibria of ligand binding .
when stripped of anions , hb deer lodge has an increased oxygen affinity and a decreased degree of cooperativity relative to hb a .
the alkaline bohr effect is slightly increased and there are marked increases in oxygen affinity below ph 6 and above ph 8 .
in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate the cooperativity in increases to nromal and the ph dependence of oxygen binding is reduced .
this contrasts with the enhanced bohr effect seen for hb a in the presence of organic phosphates .
due to enhanced anion binding at high ph , hb deer lodge has a slightly lower oxygen affinity than hb a at ph 9 in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate or inositol hexaphosphate .
kinetic studies at neutral ph in the absence of organic phosphates revealed biphasicity in the rate of oxygen dissociation from hb deer lodge , while approximately linear time courses were observed for hb a .
the fast phase of the oxygen dissociation kinetics shows great ph sensitivity , and organic phosphates increase the rate and percentage of the fast phase without greatly affecting the slow phase .
the two phases are not resolvable at high ph .
co combination kinetics are much like those of hb a except that `` fast '' and `` slow '' phases were apparent at wavelengths near the deoxy-co isobestic point .
we suggest that functional differences between the alpha and beta chains are enhanced in hb deer lodge .
after flash photolysis of the co derivative , the percentage of quickly reacting material was slightly greater for hb deer lodge than for hb a .
this may imply a somewhat greater tendency to dissociate into high affinity subunits .
the substitution of arginine for histidine at beta 2 thus results in a macromolecule whose ligand-binding properties are significantly altered , the primary differences being expressed at high ph where hb deer lodge binds anions more strongly than hb a .
the properties of hb deer lodge are compared to those of other hemoglobin variants with substitutions at residues involved in binding of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate .
patterns of fatty acid release from endogenous substrates by human platelet homogenates and membranes .
we describe a method for measuring the release of fatty acids from endogenous substrates of human platelet homogenates and membranes .
the method depends on the availability of lipids whose fatty acids are odd-chained and therefore suitable as internal reference compounds that , at the time of lipid extraction , can be added to an incubation to permit subsequent quantification of the content of free fatty acids or fatty acids esterified to specific lipids .
we found four types of lipolytic activities in human platelets .
in homogenates at ph 4.0 a triglyceride lipase operated as shown by the synchrony of triglyceride degradation and release of glycerol and those fatty acids that are the predominant constituents of triglycerides .
however , enough arachidonic acid was released at this ph level to suggest some phospholipid breakdown , since triglycerides hold relatively small amounts of this acid .
with membranous preparations , in the alkaline ph range there were two peaks of fatty acid release with accompanying degradation of phospholipids .
at ph 8.5 , where release of the saturated acids , palmitic and stearic , predominated , their sum was 3.5 times that of arachidonic acid .
at ph 9.5 the release of palmitic and stearic acids was only slightly below their peak values ; however , the release of arachidonic acid nearly equaled the sum of the saturated acids .
linoleic acid was not released in representative amounts by those reactions that released arachidonic acid , despite the overwhelming propensity of both to be esterified at the 2-position of phospholipids .
pertinently , the choline phospholipids are linoleic-rich and the non-choline phospholipids linoleic-poor , while both have a generous endowment of arachidonic acid .
with this in mind , we raise the possibility that the phospholipase a2 of human platelets is an endoenzyme because of its tendency to act on those phospholipids that are thought to comprise the inner layer of the cell membrane .
oxidation of nadph by submitochondrial particles from beef heart in complete absence of transhydrogenase activity from nadph to nad .
treatment of submitochondrial particles ( etp ) with trypsin at 0 degrees destroyed nadph leads to nad ( or 3-acetylpyridine adenine dinucleotide , acpyad ) transhydrogenase activity .
nadh oxidase activity was unaffected ; nadph oxidase and nadh leads to acpyad transhydrogenase activities were diminished by less than 10 % .
when etp was incubated with trypsin at 30 degrees , nadph leads to nad transhydrogenase activity was rapidly lost , nadph oxidase activity was slowly destroyed , but nadh oxidase activity remained intact .
the reduction pattern by nadph , nadph + nad , and nadh of chromophores absorbing at 475 minus 510 nm ( flavin and iron-sulfur centers ) in complex i ( nadh-ubiquinone reductase ) or etp treated with trypsin at 0 degrees also indicated specific destruction of transhydrogenase activity .
the sensitivity of the nadph leads to nad transhydrogenase reaction to trypsin suggested the involvement of susceptible arginyl residues in the enzyme .
arginyl residues are considered to be positively charged binding sites for anionic substrates and ligands in many enzymes .
treatment of etp with the specific arginine-binding reagent , butanedione , inhibited transhydrogenation from nadph leads to nad ( or acpyad ) .
it had no effect on nadh oxidation , and inhibited nadph oxidation and nadh leads to acpyad transhydrogenation by only 10 to 15 % even after 30 to 60 min incubation of etp with butanedione .
the inhibition of nadph leads to nad transhydrogenation was diminished considerably when butanedione was added to etp in the presence of nad or nadp .
when both nad and nadp were present , the butanedione effect was completely abolished , thus suggesting the possible presence of arginyl residues at the nucleotide binding site of the nadph leads to nad transhydrogenase enzyme .
under conditions that transhydrogenation from nadph to nad was completely inhibited by trypsin or butanedione , nadph oxidation rate was larger than or equal to 220 nmol min-1 mg-1 etp protein at ph 6.0 and 30 degrees .
the above results establish that in the respiratory chain of beef-heart mitochondria nadh oxidation , nadph oxidation , and nadph leads to nad transhydrogenation are independent reactions .
protein inhibitor of acid deoxyribonucleases .
improved purification procedure and properties .
a method is described for the extensive purification of acid deoxyribonuclease ( acid dnase ) and its specific inhibitor from beef liver , the existence of which had been only supported by indirect evidence .
by the use of insolubilized acid deoxyribonuclease , eight other proteins interacting with the enzyme have been detected .
one of them ( molecular weight , 59,000 ) was identified as responsible for phosphodiesterase activity which is often a contaminant of dnase preparations .
acid dnase ( free of phosphodiesterase ) and its inhibitor have been obtained as homogeneous proteins , as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
the molecular weight of acid dnase and its inhibitor are , respectively , 26,500 and 21,500 ; those of other proteins range from 17,000 to 112,000 .
the properties of beef liver acid dnase are similar to those described for the enzymes extracted from other sources .
the same alteration of dnase kinetics by this inhibitor , as that previously demonstrated with an impure protein has been confirmed ; the sigmoidal shape observed at ph 5 for the plot of initial rate versus substrate concentration progressively disappears with increasing ph .
we have also demonstrated that rna , which inhibits the acid dnase through a competitive binding to the catalytic site , is able , like the substrate , to reverse the binding of inhibitor to the enzyme .
nucleotide-metabolizing enzymes in chlamydomonas flagella .
nucleotides have at least two functions in eukaryotic cilia and flagella .
atp , originating in the cells , is utilized for motility by energy-transducing protein ( s ) called dynein , and the binding of guanine nucleotides to tubulin , and probably certain transformations of the bound nucleotides , are prerequisites for the assembly of microtubules .
besides dynein , which can be solubulized from chlamydomonas flagella as a heterogeneous , mg2+ or ca2+-activated atpase , we have purified and characterized five other flagellar enzymes involved in nucleotide transformations .
a homogeneous , low molecular weight , ca2+-specific adenosine triphosphatase was isolated , which was inhibited by mg2+ and was not specific for atp .
this enzyme was not formed by treating purified dynein with proteases .
it was absent from extracts of tetrahymena cilia .
its function might be an auxiliary energy transducer , or in steering or tactic responses .
two species of adenylate kinase were isolated , one of which was much elevated in regenerating flagella ; the latter was also present in cell bodies .
a large part of flagellar nucleoside diphosphokinase activity could not be solubilized .
two soluble enzyme species were identified , one of which was also present in cell bodies .
since these enzymes are of interest because they might function in microtubule assembly , we studied the extent to which brain nucleoside diphosphokinase co-polymerizes with tubulin purified by repeated cycles of polymerization .
arginine kinase was not detected in chlamydomonas flagellar extracts .
in vitro biosynthesis of sialosylgalactosylceramide ( g7 ) by mouse brain microsomes .
a sialytransferase activity which catalyzes the synthesis of sialosylgalactosylceramide ( g7 ) from added galactocerebroside and cmp-n-acetylneuraminic acid has been demonstrated in mouse brain microsomes .
the enzyme reaction shows a ph optimum of 6.3 and requires detergents .
both mn2+ and ca2+ inhibited the reaction , whereas mg2+ had no effect .
the apparent km for galactocerebroside leading to g7 was estimated to be 8.7 x 10 ( -4 ) m .
the same microsomal preparation also synthesized hematoside when ceramide lactoside was the glycolipid acceptor .
the apparent km for ceramide lactoside was about one-tenth that for galactocerebroside .
when the preparations were partially inactivated by heat the synthesis of g7 and of hematoside was reduced at approximately the same rate .
liver appeared to have the highest activity for g7 synthesis ( as well as of hematoside ) , followed by brain .
the synthesis of b7 by mouse brain microsomes in vitro demonstrates a new pathway for brain ganglioside synthesis .
proteolytic enzymes of the k-1 strain of streptomyces griseus obtained from a commercial preparation ( pronase ) .
purification and characterization of the carboxypeptidase .
we described earlier the facilitated purifications of the trypsin and aminopeptidase components present in pronase ( vosbeck , k. d. , chow , k. -f. , and awad , w. m. , jr. ( 1973 ) j. biol. chem. 248 , 6029-6034 ) .
a partially resolved protein mixture left over after one of the steps in that procedure was passed through a sephadex g-75 column .
by this means , a component with carboxypeptidase activity was separated from associated serine endopeptidases .
further purification of this exopeptidase to apparent homogeneity was acheived by refiltration through the same sephadex column and by cm-cellulose chromatography .
a single protein band was observed after acrylamide gel electrophoresis ; analysis by sedimentation equilibrium using the meniscus depletion method gave a molecular weight of 30,300 .
this enzyme demonstrates activity against nalpha-benzyloxycarbonylglycyl-l-leucine and hippuryl-d , l-phenyllactate ; no activity was found against nalpha-acetyl-l-tyrosine ethyl ester , nalpha-benzoyl-d , l-arginine-p-nitroanilide , or l-leuckne-p-nitroanilide .
the maximum activity lies between ph values of 7 and 8 ; the enzyme is stable between ph values of 6 and 10 .
at room temperature 1,10-phenanthroline inactivates the enzyme completely whereas edta has no effect .
of the many cations tested , only co2+ , ni2+ , or zn2+ restores activity to the 1,10-phenanthroline-treated enzyme ; co2+ provided 3 times the native activity .
the metal in the native protein was found to be zinc .
these findings are similar to those recorded with bovine pancreatic carboxypeptidase a , and suggest the possibility that the present enzyme may ge genetically related to the mammalian protein , as in previously noted examples of homology of three pronase endopeptidases to pancreatic serine enzymes .
trypsin-sensitive photosynthetic activities in chloroplast membranes from chlamydomonas reinhardi , y-1 .
location of electron transport chain components in chloroplast membranes of chlamydomonas reinhardi , y-1 was investigated by use of proteolytic digestion with soluble or insolubilized trypsin .
digestion of intact membrane vesicles with soluble trypsin inactivates the water-splitting system , the 3- ( 3,4-dichlorophenyl ) -1,1-dimethylurea inhibition site of photosystem ii , the electron transport between the two photosystems as well as the ferredoxin nadp reductase .
reduction of nadp with artificial electron donors for photosystem i could be restored , however , by addition of purified reductase to trypsin-digested membranes .
electron transfer activities of photosystems i and ii reaction centers were resistant to trypsin digestion either from outside or from within the thylakoids when active trypsin was trapped inside the membrane vesicles by sonication and digestion carried out in the presence of trypsin inhibitor added from outside .
in the latter case , the water-splitting system was also found to be resistant to digestion .
polyacrylamide-bound insolubilized trypsin inactivated only the ferredoxin nadp reductase .
photosynthetically active membranes obtained at different stages of development showed a basically similar behavior toward trypsin .
a complex of cardiac cytochrome c1 and cytochrome c .
the interactions of cytochrome c1 and cytochrome c from bovine cardiac mitochondria were investigated .
cytochrome c1 and cytochrome c formed a 1:1 molecular complex in aqueous solutions of low ionic strength .
the complex was stable to sephadex g-75 chromatography .
the formation and stability of the complex were independent of the oxidation state of the cytochrome components as far as those reactions studied were concerned .
the complex was dissociated in solutions of ionic strength higher than 0.07 or ph exceeding 10 and only partially dissociated in 8 m urea .
no complexation occurred when cytochrome c was acetylated on 64 % of its lysine residues or photooxidized on its 2 methionine residues .
complexes with molecular ratios of less than 1:1 ( i.e. more cytochrome c ) were obtained when polymerized cytochrome c , or cytochrome c with all lysine residues guanidinated , or a `` 1-65 heme peptide '' from cyanogen bromide cleavage of cytochrome c was used .
these results were interpreted to imply that the complex was predominantly maintained by ionic interactions probably involving some of the lysine residues of cytochrome c but with major stabilization dependent on the native conformations of both cytochromes .
the reduced complex was autooxidizable with biphasic kinetics with first order rate constants of 6 x 10 ( -5 ) and 5 x u0 ( -5 ) s-1 but did not react with carbon monoxide .
the complex reacted with cyanide and was reduced by ascorbate at about 32 % and 40 % respectively , of the rates of reaction with cytochrome c alone .
the complex was less photoreducible than cytochrome c1 alone .
the complex exhibited remarkably different circular dichroic behavior from that of the summation of cytochrome c1 plus cytochrome c .
we concluded that when cytochromes c1 and c interacted they underwent dramatic conformational changes resulting in weakening of their heme crevices .
all results available would indicate that in the complex cytochrome c1 was bound at the entrance to the heme crevice of cytochrome c on the methionine-80 side of the heme crevice .
leucine aminopeptidase ( bovine lens ) .
effect of ph on the relative binding of zn2+ and mg2+ to and on activation of the enzyme .
incubation of leucine aminopeptidase ( bovine lens ) ( ec 3.4.1.1 ) with various concentrations of mg2+ at various ph values in 1 m kcl and 0.155 m trimethylamine-hcl at 37 degrees confirms that mg2+ competes with zn2+ for binding only 1 site per 54,000-dalton subunit .
the ratio of the apparent association constants ( 1kzn:1kmg = 1kzn/mg ) at this site ( site 1 ) was estimated to be 20,720 at ph 8.16 , 10,570 at ph 8.44 , 3,590 at ph 8.78 , and 660 at ph 9.14 .
the decrease in values of 1kzn/mg with increasing ph in the activation of leucine aminopeptidase by mg2+ is attributed to the lowering of the free zn2+ concentration relative to that of free mg2+ caused by the formation of znoh+ and zn ( oh ) 2 complexes with increasing oh- concentration .
when corrections are made for the binding of zn2+ by oh- ions , the ph-independent ratio of association constants ( 1kzn:1kmg = 1kzn/mg ) for the relative binding of zn2+ and mg2+ at site 1 of leucine aminopeptidase in 29,800 .
from the effect of ph on the relative binding constant , a value ( beta2 ) for the product of the two stepwise association constants for the formation of zn ( oh ) 2 from zn2+ and oh- ( zn2+ + oh- in equilibrium znoh+ ; znoh+ + oh- in equilibrium zn ( oh ) 2 ) was estimated to be 4.42 x 10 ( 10 ) m-2 at 37 degrees .
values of km at ph 7.5 and 30 degrees with l-leucine p-nitroanilide as substrate in the presence of 0.01 m nahco3 are 4.13 and 2.01 mm for the zinc-zinc and magnesium-zinc enzymes , respectively .
values for vmax are 0.2 and 2.49 mumol/min/mg , respectively .
biochemical studies of tast sensation .
binding of l- [ 3h ] alanine to a sedimentable fraction from catfish barbel epithelium .
large numbers of taste buds are distributed over the body surface of the channel catfish ictalurus punctatus , with the barbels having an especially high density .
l-alanine , as well as certain other amino acids , are taste stimuli in this animal .
epithelial tissue obtained by gentle scraping of the barbel surface was fractionated by differential centrifugation .
a sedimentable fraction ( p2 ) was prepared that was enriched in l [ oh ] alanine binding activity , the plasma membrane marker enzyme 5'-nucleotidase , and the mitochondrial marker succinate cytochrome c reductase , but not the microsomal marker nadh cytochrome c redu .
ctase .
binding of l- [ oh ] alanine was measured using a millipore filter method in which correction for non-specific binding was also determined .
time , temperature , and ph for measuring binding activity were established .
at the optimal ph of 7.8 , the kd for l-alanine is 4.8 x 10 ( -6 ) m .
the first order dissociation rate constant at 6 degrees is 3.8 x 10 ( -4 ) s-1 and at 24 degrees it is 12.1 x 10 ( -4 ) s-1 .
the second order rate constant for association is between 10 ( 2 ) and 10 ( 3 ) m-1 s-1 .
reversibility of the binding interaction was also demonstrates by the rapid displacement of bound l- [ 3h ] alanine by a large excess of unlabeled l-alanine .
that the binding does not represent incorporation into protein was confirmed by the lack of effect of puromycin .
the amounts bound of several other chemostimulatory amino acids werealso determined .
arterialization of the coronary veins in diffuse coronary arteriosclerosis .
since the coronary veins and capillaries are not involved with arteriosclerotic disease the authors performed experimental , and afterwards , clinical total and selective coronary vein arterialization .
acute myocardial ischaemia created for instance by ligation of the anterior descending branch , was treated by an internal mammary artery to regional coronary vein anastomosis .
in 21 patients the selective arterialization of the `` vena cordis magna '' or of `` vena cordis media '' , and total arterialization of the coronary sinus was performed .
the clinical improvement and follow-up studies seem to be promising in the treatment of patients with advanced diffuse heavy coronary arteriosclerosis .
in acute myocardial ischaemia with coronarographically localized coronary occlusion , the aim of regional vein arterialization is to minimize the area of infarction .
preparations of internal mammary arteries for coronary bypass with intraluminal papaverine .
structure , composition , physical properties , and turnover of proliferated peroxisomes .
a study of the trophic effects of su-13437 on rat liver .
peroxisome proliferation has been induced with 2-methyl-2- ( p- [ 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-naphthyl ] -phenoxy ) -propionic acid ( su-13437 ) .
dna , protein , cytochrome oxidase , glucose-6-phosphatase , and acid phosphatase concentrations remain almost constant .
peroxisomal enzyme activities change to approximately 165 % , 50 % , 30 % , and 0 % of the controls for catalase , urate oxidase , l-alpha-hydroxy acid oxidase , and d-amino acid oxidase , respectively .
for catalase the change results from a decrease in particle-bound activity and a fivefold increase in soluble activity .
the average diameter of peroxisome sections is 0.58 +/- 0.15 mum in controls and 0.73 +/- 0.25 mum after treatment .
therefore , the measured peroxisomal enzymes are highly diluted in proliferated particles .
after tissue fractionation , approximately one-half of the normal peroxisomes and all proliferated peroxisomes show matric extraction with ghost formation , but no change in size .
in homogenates submitted to mechanical stress , proliferated peroxisomes do not reveal increased fragility ; unexpectedly , su-13437 stabilizes lysosomes .
our results suggest that matrix extraction and increased soluble enzyme activities result from transmembrane passage of peroxisomal proteins .
the changes in concentration of peroxisomal oxidases and soluble catalase after su-13437 allow the calculation of their half-lives .
these are the same as those found for total catalase , in normal and treated rats , after allyl isopropyl acetamide : about 1.3 days , a result compatible with peroxisome degradation by autophagy .
a sequential increase in liver rna concentration , [ 14c ] leucine incorporation into doc-soluble proteins and into immunoprecipitable catalase , and an increase in liver size and peroxisomal volume per gram liver , characterize the trophic effect of the drug used .
in males , su-13437 is more active than cpib , another peroxisome proliferation-inducing drug ; in females , only su-13437 is active .
localization of nadh oxidase on the surface of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes by a new cytochemical method .
the ultrastructural localization of nadh oxidase , a possible enzyme in the increased oxidative activity of polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmn ) during phagocytosis , was studied .
a new cytochemical technique for the localization of h2o2 , a product of nadh oxidase activity , was developed .
cerous ions , in the presence of peroxide , form an electron-dense precipitate .
resting and phagocytically stimulated pmn were exposed to cerous ions at ph 7.5 to demonstrate sites of nadh-dependent , cyanide-insensitive h2o2 production .
resting pmn exhibites slight activity on the plasma membrane ; phagocytizing pmn had extensive deposits of reaction product localized within the phagosome and on the plasma membrane .
peroxide involvement was demonstrated by the inhibitory effect of catalase on cerium precipitation ; the surface localization of the enzyme responsible was confirmed by using nonpenetrating inhibitors of enzymatic activity .
a correlative study was performed with an nadh-dependent , tetrazolium-reduction system .
as with cerium , formazan deposition on the surface of the cell was nadh dependent , cyanide insensitive , and stimulated by phagocytosis .
superoxide dismutase did not inhibit tetrazolium reduction , as observed cytochemically , indicating direct enzymatic dye reduction without superoxide interposition .
these findings , combined with oxygen consumption studies on resting and stimulated pmn in the presence or absence of nadh , indicate that nadh oxidase is a surface enzyme in human pmn .
it is internalized during phagocytosis and retains its peroxide-generating capacity within the phagocytic vacuole .
defective lysosomal enzyme secretion in kidneys of chediak-higashi ( beige ) mice .
the beige mouse is an animal model for the human chediak-higashi syndrome , a disease characterized by giant lysosomes in most cell types .
in mice , treatment with androgenic hormones causes a 20-50-fold elevation in at least one kidney lysosomal enzyme , beta-glucuronidase .
beige mice treated with androgen had significantly higher kidney beta-glucuronidase , beta-galactosidase , and n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( hexosaminidase ) levels than normal mice .
other androgen-inducible enzymes and enzyme markers for the cytosol , mitochondria , and peroxisomes were not increased in kidney of beige mice .
no significant lysosomal enzyme elevation was observed in five other organs of beige mice with or without androgen treatment , nor in kidneys of beige females not treated with androgen .
histochemical staining for glucuronidase together with subcellular fractionation showed that the higher glucuronidase content of beige mouse kidney is caused by a striking accumulation of giant glucuronidase-containing lysosomes in tubule cells near the corticomedullary boundary .
in normal mice lysosomal enzymes are coordinately released into the lumen of the kidney tubules and appreciable amounts of lysosomal enzymes are present in the urine .
levels of urinary lysosomal enzymes are much lower in beige mice than in normal mice .
it appears that lysosomes may accumulate in beige mice because of defective exocytosis resulting either from decreased intracellular motility of lysosomes or from their improper fusion with the plasma membrane .
a similar defect could account for characteristics of the chediak-higashi syndrome .
stimulation of 2-deoxy-d-glucose transport in control and virus-transformed cells by ethidium bromide .
recently we demonstrated that ethidium bromide altered the plasma and subcellular membrane glycoproteins in control and virus transformed cells .
it is reported here that ethidium bromide also stimulated the membrane associated process of sugar transport .
the km of the virus transformed cells and the ethidium bromide treated cells is the same as that of the control cells while the maximum velocity as compared to the control cells is significantly increased .
the transport of 2-deoxyl-d-glucose was inhibited by glucose , cytochalasin b and neuraminidase but was unaffected by variations in cell density or ph of the incubation medium .
effect of pharmacological agents on human keratinocyte mitosis in vitro .
ii .
inhibition by catecholamines .
catecholamines produce mitotic inhibition in primary cell cultures of human keratinocytes probably via a block in the g2 part of the cell cycle .
epinephrine produced significant mitotic inhibition ( 49 % ) at a concentration as low as 4.5 x 10 ( -10 ) m , while its analog , isoproterenol , produced 47 % inhibition at 1 x 10 ( -10 ) m .
norepinephrine elicited a 49 % inhibitory response at 1 x 10 ( -8 ) m .
one other catecholamine , dopamine , caused a 53 % decrease in mitosis at 1 x 10 ( -6 ) m .
other structurally related amines to exhibit mitotic inhibition were phenylephrine , 58 % at 1 x 10 ( -7 ) m ; octopamine , 47 % at 1 x 10 ( -5 ) m ; and tyramine , 52 % at 1 x 10 ( -4 ) m .
serotonin showed no mitotic inhibition at 1 x 10 ( -4 ) m .
various alpha and beta adrenergic blocking agents were added to the cell system .
the alpha blocking agent , phentolamine , had no effect on mitosis .
when added in conjunction with epinephrine or norepinephrine , no reduction of the catecholamine-induced mitotic inhibition was observed .
the beta blocking agent , propranolol , by itself showed slight mitotic inhibition at 1 x 10 ( -6 ) m .
when added along with epinephrine or noreinephrine , propranolol reduced the catecholamine-induced mitotic inhibition approximately 65 % .
in addition , propranolol blocked mitotic inhibition caused by phenylephrine , an alpha adrenergic agent .
however , another beta blocking agent , dichloroisoproterenol , showed strong mitotic inhibition ( 53 % ) when added to the cultures at a concentration of 1 x 10 ( -8 ) m .
the effect was reduced to zero in the presence of propranolol .
these data suggest that while beta receptors may be involved in the catecholamine-induced mitotic inhibition of human keratinocytes in vitro , the nature of the receptor-molecule interaction may be complex .
serum-free growth of htc cells containing glucocorticoid- and insulin-inducible tyrosine aminotransferase and cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptors .
htc cells have been made to grow in chemically defined medium without any macromolecular supplements whatsoever .
initial estimates of their relative amino acid requirements have been made .
the cells grown in the defined medium retain many of the differentiated features which have been the focus of investigation in their serum-grown counterparts .
thus , the cells in defined medium contain cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptors and have tyrosine aminotransferase which can be induced by glucocorticoids , serum or insulin .
these cells also produce , in small amounts , an as yet undefined rat serum protein .
stimulation of lactic acid production in chick embryo fibroblasts by serum and high ph in the absence of external glucose .
lactic acid production by chick embryo fibroblasts occurs in the absence of exogenous glucose .
fifteen to 50-fold less lactic acid is formed in the absence of glucose than in its presence .
nevertheless , serum and ph stimulation enhances this residual lactic acid production to the same relative extent as when glucose is present .
the amount of lactic acid formed can not be accounted for by the catabolism of residual glucose in the medium since its concentration is less than one-tenth that of the lactic acid eventually produced .
moreover , the residual glucose concentration remains constant or increases during the course of the experiment .
to a large extent lactic acid accumulation in the absence of external glucose is dependent on the presence of amino acids in the medium , but amino acid transport is not affected by the stimulatory agents used in this study .
the results suggest that treatments which stimulate cell multiplication also activate those enzymatic pathways which convert amino acids to pyruvic and thence to lactic acid .
isolation and studies of the granules of the amebocytes of limulus polyphemus , the horseshoe crab .
granules were isolated from the cytoplasm of the amebocytes of limulus polyphemus , the horseshoe crab , by disruption of cells obtained from blood which had been drawn into 2 mm propranolol .
the granules subsequently were purified by centrifugation through a sucrose gradient that contained heparin .
extracts of the granules were prepared by freezing and thawing the granule preparations in distilled water .
transmission and scanning electron microscopy of the granules revealed round or ovoid particles .
however , only one type of granule appeared to be present .
the ultraviolet spectrum of the extract of amebocyte granules demonstrated a peak at 277 nm at ph 7.4 , and a shift into two peaks of 281 nm and 290 nm at alkaline ph .
analytical ultracentrifugation revealed a pattern similar to that observed with lysates prepared from intact amebocytes .
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis , in the presence of urea at ph 4.5 , demonstrated patterns similar to those observed with amebocyte lysate .
extracts of the granules were gelled by bacterial endotoxin .
the blood of the horseshoe crab contains only one type of cell , the amebocyte .
previous studies have shown that the blood coagulation mechanism of limulus is contained entirely within amebocytes .
the current studies suggest that the granules , which pack the cytoplasm of these cells , contain all of the factors required for the coagulation of blood , including the clottable protein .
the intracellularly localized coagulation system is released from amebocytes when their granules rupture during cell aggregation .
the enzyme kinetics of phospholipase a .
a student experiment .
carotenoids and related compounds .
part xxxii .
synthesis of astaxanthin , phoenicoxanthin , hydroxyechinenone , and the corresponding diosphenols .
purification of human red cell glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase by affinity chromatography .
human glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase associated with nadph was efficiently bound with agarose-bound nadp , whereas the enzyme associated with nadp was poorly bound with agarose-bound nadp .
after the elimination of haemoglobin from haemolyzate by treatment with deae-cellulose , the enzyme was converted into the nadph-bound form and was applied on an affinity column .
the enzyme was specifically eluted from the column by nadp in the elution buffer .
a homogeneous enzyme preparation was obtained in high yield .
simultaneous determination of propranolol and 4-hydroxypropranolol in plasma by mass fragmentography .
a quantitative method for the simultaneous determination of propranolol and its active metabolite 4-hydroxypropranolol in human plasma is described .
plasma samples are extracted at ph 9.6 with ethyl acetate after the addition of sodium bisulphite and the internal standard oxprenolol .
the extracts are derivatized with trifluoroacetic anhydride before separation on a gas chromatograph -- mass spectrometer .
detection and quantitation of the trifluoroacetyl derivatives are made by single-ion monitoring .
the minimum detectable concentration of propranolol is 1 ng/ml and of 4-hydroxypropranolol 5 ng/ml using 1-ml plasma samples .
no interferences from normal plasma constituents or from drugs commonly prescribed together with propranolol were detected .
high pressure liquid chromatography on cannabis .
identification of separated constituents .
delta9-and-delta8-tetrahydrocannabinol , delta9-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid , cannabidiol , cannabidolic acid , cannabinol , cannabinolic acid , cannabichromene and cannabichromenic acid were located in the liquid chromatogram of cannabis .
identifications were confirmed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry .
amino acid analysis by ion-exchange chromatography using a lithium elution gradient .
influence of methanol concentration and sample ph .
the separation of amino acids has been achieved on a short column of chromo-beads c2 resin , with a lithium gradient-elution system .
the analysis took 8 h .
the separation of asparagine and glutamine from glutamic acid was highly dependent on the sample ph and on the methanol concentration in the first buffer of the gradient .
the method has been applied to analysis of human plasma and granulocytes for amino acids .
determination of 3- ( 5-tetrazolyl ) thioxanthone 10,10-dioxide in human plasma , urine and faeces .
a gas chromatographic method is described for assay of 3- ( 5-tetrazolyl ) thioxanthone 10,10-dioxide ( bw 59c ) in human plasma , urine and faeces .
after extraction into 1,2-dichloroethane from alkaline medium the compound is converted to the heptafluorobutyrate derivative which is injected into a gas chromatograph and measured using a 63ni electron capture detector .
the assay produces a linear calibration curve over the range 0-30 mug/ml when the internal standard method is used .
reproducibility is good and sensitivity down to 1 ng injected on column is possible .
the method has been used to investigate the pharmacokinetic properties of bw 59c in man and has been semi-automated by the use of an autosampler and dedicated computer .
methods to improve detection of pneumococci in respiratory secretions .
simple methods to enhance the detection of pneumococci in respiratory secretions are needed .
sheep blood agar containing 5 mug of gentamicin per ml was more often positive ( 89 % ) than either standard sheep blood agar ( 54 % ) or mouse inoculation ( 65 % ) in recovering pneumococci from 62 adult and pediatric patients .
in adults , the direct quellung test on sputum smear was a rapid , sensitive method for predicting subsequent pneumococcal isolation by culture ( 19 of 20 patients , 95 % ) .
the quellung test and gentamicin plate show improved sensitivity over current techniques for pneumococcal detection and can be recommended for general use .
dependence on dose of the acute effects of ethanol on liver metabolism in vivo .
the dose dependence of the acute effects of ethanol upon liver intermediary metabolism in vivo has been demonstrated in rats .
ethanol was given i.p. in doses of 0.69 , 1.7 , and 3.0 g/kg in equal volumes ( 20 ml/kg ) .
the liver was freeze-clamped 120 min after injection , and multiple metabolites were measured in the perchloric acid extract of the tissue .
each group showed a significantly different pattern of metabolites , redox states , and phosphorylation potentials although the rate of ethanol disappearance , at least between the two highest dose groups , was not significantly different .
the mitochondrial free [ nad+ ] / [ nadh ] ratios and the cytoplasmic free [ nadp+ ] / [ nadph ] ratio were paradoxically most reduced with the lowest dose of ethanol and became progressively more oxidized with increasing dose .
once established , the differences in these ratios between the groups tended to persist with time , relatively independent of the concentration of ethanol .
in a somewhat different pattern , the phosphorylation potential ( [ atp ] / [ adp ] [ p1 ] ) remained at the control level in the low-dose group but was significantly elevated in the two higher-dose groups .
the results , therefore , show distinct and complicated dose-dependent patterns of intermediary metabolism that can not be explained completely by any one hypothesis but that imply significant dose-dependent effects of ethanol upon intermediary metabolism not directly related to nadh production .
factors affecting the solubility of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals .
the solubility of triclinic calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate ( cppd ) crystals was measured under varying conditions using 45ca-labeled crystals , expressing solubility as micromoles per liter of 45ca in solution .
in a 0.1-m tris-hc1 buffer ph 7.4 , the solubility of accurately sized cppd crystals ( 37-20mum ) was 60mum with maximal solubility being attained after about 8 h incubation at 37degreec .
reduction in crystal size , decrease in ph , increase in ionic strength , mg++ , citrate , and albumin all increased solubility .
the most marked effects on solubility occurred when changing the calcium concentration or by enzymatic hydrolysis of inoganic pyrophosphate to orthophosphate .
it was found that decreasing the ionized calcium level below 5 mg/100 ml resulted in a progressive enhancement of solubility .
the observed solubility-enhancing effects of albumin could be explained solely on its calcium-binding ability and thereby , altered ionized calcium level .
diffusible calcium in synovial fluid was only 40 % of the total calcium concentration , which means most joint fluids are normally near the critical concentration of 5 mg/100 ml of ionized calcium , below which solubility is enhanced .
during surgery , especially parathyroidectomy , calcium levels fall , favoring dissolution of cppd crystals .
we speculate that the slight decrease in crystal size during dissolution frees them from their cartilaginous mold , resulting in a dose-dependent inflammatory reaction as they are `` shed '' into the joint space .
crystal shedding may be reinforced by the modest fall in joint fluid ph accompanying the inflammatory response .
lorazepam compared with pentobarbital for nighttime sedation .
lorazepam ( 0.5 , 1 , 2 , and 4 mg ) was compared with pentobarbital ( 60 and 180 mg ) for its effect on sleep in `` hospital insomnia . ''
subjective-response data were collected by research nurses .
lorazepam was found to be a potent nighttime sedative : 1 to 1.25 mg of lorazepam is equivalent to 100 mg sodium pentobarbital for measures of sleep quality and duration .
at this dose level it is less effective than 100 mg of pentobarbital as a sleep inducer .
studies at higher doses ( up to 4 mg ) indicate that lorazepam has a wide therapeutic index .
evidence from rats that morphine tolerance is a learned response .
it is proposed that the direct analgesic effect of morphine becomes attenuated over the course of successive administrations of the narcotic by a conditioned , compensatory , hyperalgesic response elicited by the administration procedure , the net result being analgesic tolerance .
using the `` hot plate '' analgesia assessment situation with rats , this conditioning view of tolerance is supported by several findings : ( a ) it is necessary to have reliable environmental cues predicting the systemic effects of morphine if tolerance is to be observed , ( b ) a hyperalgesic conditioned response may be observed in morphine-tolerant subjects when drug administration cues are followed by a placebo , and ( c ) merely by repeatedly presenting environmental cues previously associated with morphine ( but now presented with a placebo ) , morphine tolerance can be extinguished .
murexide for determination of free and protein-bound calcium in model systems .
the determination with murexide of free and protein-bound calcium in model systems of known composition , ionic strength , and ph was investigated .
the spectra of calcium murexide in the presence of varying amounts of calcium ions indicated that the absorption maximum fo calcium murexide complex occurs at 480 nm while that of murexide ion is at 520 nm .
the absorbance at 509 nm is independent of calcium ion concentration and , therefore , could be used to measure the total dye .
the spectra are ph dependent but constant in the range 6.5 to 7.0 .
the apparent dissociation constant of calcium murexide is dependent upon ionic environment , ionic strength , and free calcium ion concentration .
the relationship between the apparent dissociation constant and free calcium concentration was established .
whole casein had no effect on the absorption spectra of calcium murexide and no affinity for calcium murexide complex or murexide ion .
beta-casein , at the concentrations employed , did not influence the dissociation fo calcium murexide .
at ph 7.0 , ionic strength .1 , and 2 c , beta-casein bound calcium as if there were 8.65 binding sites per molecule , each of pk 2.23 , corresponding to an intrinsic association constant of 168.9 liters per mole .
external validity of laboratory fear assessment : implications from two case studies .
relaxation as a factor in semantic desensitization .
effect of trace elements on dissolution of hydroxyapatite by cariogenic streptococci .
the effect of low levels of strontium , boron , lithium , molybdenum , and fluorine , alone and in combination , on hydroxyapatite solubility , bacterial growth , and acid production in five antigenic types of streptococcus mutans was investigated .
pour plates containing synthetic hydroxyapatite were used to compare dissolution of hydroxyapatite .
the colonies of the five antigenic types of s mutans produced zones of dissolution that were measured .
acid production and growth were studied in broth culture media .
the results show that low levels of strontium and fluorine can significantly reduce demineralization of synthetic hydroxyapatite by s mutans in vitro .
conductometric titration of aqueous solutions of polyacrylic acid and its copolymers .
atmospheric levels of propoxur aboard submarines after residual spraying .
activity and longevity of insect growth regulators against mosquitoes .
uptake , translocation , and metabolism of tirpate in tobacco .
nicotiana tabacum .
cannabis smoke condensate .
identification of some acids , bases , and phenols .
stability of myofibrillar edta-atpase in rabbit psoas fiber bundles .
soluble protein concentrate from alfalfa by low-temperature acid precipitation .
kinetics of cyanate and imidazole binding to hemin in micelles .
inguinal herniography in children .
[ use of isotopes in the diagnosis of malignant breast tumors ] .
the authors , with 67 gallium , have obtained positive scintigraphy of the breast only in cases of carcinoma .
reliability of negative scintigraphy however is less good .
isotopic investigation of the bones is important in breast cancer and reveal early osseous metastasis .
peroxisome development in the metanephric kidney of mouse .
the relationship of enzymatic activity to organelle development and organelle number during differentiation of the metanephric kidney in the mouse was approached from several experimental directions .
biochemical analyses of marker enzymes for peroxisomes ( catalase and d-amino acid oxidase ) , mitochondria ( cytochrome oxidase ) and lysosomes ( acid phosphatase ) were performed on kidneys at ages from 17 days prenatal to adult .
these data were correlated with a morphometric analysis of populations of peroxisomes and mitochondria in differentiating cells of the proximal tubule .
postnatal development of the metanephric kidney was found to be accompanied by a rapid increase in both the specific activity of catalase and the number of peroxisomes per 100 mu2 in the proximal tubule during the first 4 weeks of postnatal growth .
elaboration of the endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) was seen to parallel the increase in number of peroxisomes to which segments of er were often in close apposition .
extensive interactions between segments of er and peroxisomes were readily visible in 0.5-mu sections viewed in the high voltage electron microscope .
in contrast to peroxisomes , neither mitochondria nor lysosomes followed a similar pattern of net organelle increase , suggesting that a defined population density of mitochondria and lysosomes may exist in the proximal tubule at birth , prior to complete development of the kidney .
physiological basis of host susceptibility of florida mosquitoes to dirofilaria immitis .
inhibitory effects of antihistamines and antiserotonins on the bone marrow reactions produced by escherichia coli endotoxin in mice .
the bone marrow reactions ( that is , decrease of nucleated cell counts and increase of red blood cell counts ) of mouse bone were observed 1 hr after injection of endotoxin and peaked after 18 hr .
these reactions were significantly inhibited when diphenhydramine , promethazine ( antihistamines ) , chlorpromazine ( antiserotonin ) , or cyproheptadine ( antihistamine and antiserotonin ) was given 30 min before endotoxin .
such bone marrow reactions were also induced with histamine or serotonin and peaked 1 hr after administration .
the histamine-induced changes were inhibited by prior treatment with diphenhydramine .
these reactions were also produced by injection of a small amount of both histamine and serotonin , whereas no change was found when mice were given a single injection of a larger dose of histamine or serotonin .
these results indicate that histamine and serotonin released in mice at the initial stage after endotoxin synergistically trigger the bone marrow reactions , which then continue in the presence of further mediators .
antihistamines and antiserotonins are considered to hinder the whole process of reactions produced by endotoxin .
[ experimental study of hypothermia -- with special reference to changes in cerebrospinal fluid gases and lactate during perfusion cooling and circulatory arrest ] .
[ a case of allergic granulomatous angitis ( author's transl ) ] .
criminal exposure of physician assistants .
on the interactions between pancreatic lipase and colipase and the substrate , and the importance of bile salts .
the interactions between pancreatic lipase and colipase and the substrate and the effect of bile salts on these interactions have been investigated by the use of kinetic experiments and studies on the semiquantitative phase distribution of lipase and colipase activities .
the results suggest that lipase binds to hydrophobic interfaces with partial irreversible inactivation .
bile salts in the range of micellar concentrations and above a ph of about 6.5 displace lipase from this binding , resulting in a reversible in activation .
at ph values below about 6.5 , lipase binds strongly to the substrate even in the presence of bile salt , and a low activity peak is seen around ph 5.5 .
this is the result of the binding of lipase to the `` supersubstrate '' and the activity of the catalytic site .
in the presence of bile salt , colipase promotes the binding of lipase to the `` supersubstrate '' but not to other hydrophobic interfaces , and catalytic activity is reestablished .
kinetic data indicate that the binding between colipase and lipase in the presence of substrate is strong and occurs in an approximately stoichiometric relationship .
effect of ionic strength and ionic composition of assay buffers on the interaction of thyroxine with plasma proteins .
when plasma proteins are diluted with buffer the ionic strength and ionic composition of that buffer affects the interactions between thyroxine ( t4 ) and its plasma protein-binding sites .
increases in phosphate , chloride or barbiturate ion concentration from 50 to 200 mmol/l caused a significant decrease in the affinity of plasma proteins for t4 , and a concurrent increase in the concentration of unbound t4 .
these results can not be completely accounted for by changes in ionic strength since at the same ionic strength different anions caused quantitatively different effects on unbound t4 concentration .
the degree of depression of t4 binding by the three anions studied was in the order barbiturate greater than chloride greater than phosphate .
the results of a systematic study on the composition of diluent buffer systems indicated that when a 50 mm-sodium phosphate-100 mm-nacl buffer ( ph 7-4 ) was used as a plasma diluent , there were unlikely to be gross changes in the t4-binding properties of plasma proteins with dilution .
the innervation of the salivary gland of the moth , manduca sexta : evidence that dopamine is the transmitter .
1. using the falck-hillarp histochemical technique for monoamines , evidence was found for the presence of a catecholamine in the salivary gland nerves of the moth , manduca sexta .
2. the innervation was studied with the electron microscope .
only the fluid-secreting region of the gland is innervated and the nerve endings are characteristic of monoamine-containing terminals .
3. using a sensitive enzymatic-isotopic assay for catecholamines , it was found that whole salivary glands contain 0.33 mug/g dopamine but no noradrenaline .
4. it seems likely that dopamine mediates fluid-secretion in the salivary gland of manduca as it does a number of other arthropods .
an electrophysiological analysis of chemoreception in the sea anemone tealia felina .
1. electrophysiological techniques have been employed to examine the nature of the response observed in the ectodermal slow-conduction system ( ssi ) when dissolved food substances contact the column of tealia felina .
the response seems to consist entirely of sensory activity which may continue for periods of many minutes , provided that the stimulatory chemicals remain contacting the column .
2. the interval between each evoked pulse gradually increases as the sensory response progresses .
this does not result from fatigue in the conduction system but involves a genuine process of sensory adaptation .
this may occur over a period of several minutes , which is much longer than comparable adaptation in higher animals .
3. physiological evidence suggests that the chemoreceptors involved are dispersed throughout the column ectoderm and are absent from the pedal disc , oral disc , tentacles and pharynx .
4. the basic role of the ssi in coordinating behavioural activity in sea anemones is reviewed .
it is concluded that it functions primarily as a single , diffuse-conducting unit responsible for transmitting frequency-coded sensory information from ectodermal chemoreceptors to ectodermal ( and perhaps endodermal ) effectors .
the selective eosinophil chemotactic activity of histamine .
histamine diphosphate was shown to selectively attract human eosinophils from mixed granulocyte populations when over 20 % eosinophils were used in a modified boyden chamber chemotactic assay system .
this effect of histamine is abolished by incubation with diamine oxidase ( histaminase ) and was generated by decarboxylation of l-histidine .
a linear dose dependent increase in eosinophil migration was observed between 3 x 10 ( -7 ) m and 1.25 x 10 ( -6 ) m , while higher concentrations of histamine inhibited the migration of eosinophils .
the attractant activity of histamine was not inhibited by h-1 or h-2 receptor antagonists , however , the inhibition of migration observed at higher histamine concentrations was reversed by metiamine , an h-2 receptor antagonist .
the effects of histamine upon eosinophil migration were demonstrable using three different assays : ( a ) counting cells that had traversed 5-mum pore , 12-mum thick polycarbonate filters , ( b ) counting cells that had migrated various distances into a 3-mum pore , 145-mum cellulose nitrate filters , or ( c ) measuring the number of cells that had traversed an upper polycarbonate filter and migrated into a lower cellulose nitrate filter using 15cr-labeled cells .
the ability of histamine to enhance eosinophil migration was shown to be dependent upon the presence of a concentration gradient ; histamine did not cause a dose-dependent increase in random motility .
furthermore , preincubation of the eosinophils with histamine deactivate the cells to further stimulation by histamine or by c5a .
it is concluded that in low doses histamine is a chemoattractant for human eosinophils , while in higher doses histamine inhibits eosinophil migration .
these observations may relate to the influx and localization of eosinophils in immediate hypersensitivity reactions .
hemoglobins and hemocyanins : comparative aspects of structure and function .
comparative studies of protein structure and function can be quite interesting by themselves , and even more interesting when interpreted with respect to an animal's physiology .
in the case of fish hemoglobins , some success in the latter has been achieved but there are still many unsolved problems .
it appears that comparative physiology and biochemistry have entered an era where results from comparative studies can shed a great deal of light on biochemical mechanisms in general .
the trout hemoglobin system is an example .
distinctive hemoglobins in this system are presently being used as high resolution probes of the ligand-binding mechanism .
characterization of the multiple , structurally distinct subunits of the 60s limulus hemocyanin molecule may similarly aid in understanding its function .
our studies suggest the possibility of using limulus hemocyanin and other hemocyanins as structural homologs and analogs of more complex macromolecular arrays .
the rapid development of molecular structural data from x-ray crystallographers combined with the vast data of comparative physiology and biochemistry makes this one of the most exciting areas in present day science .
how do biological systems discriminate among physically similar ions ?
this paper reviews the history of understanding how biological systems can discriminate so strikingly among physically similar ions , especially alkali cations .
appreciation of qualitative regularities ( `` permitted sequences '' ) and quantitative regularities ( `` selectivity isotherms '' ) in ion selectivity grew first from studies of ion exchangers and glass electrodes , then of biological systems such as enzymes and cell membranes , and most recently of lipid bilayers doped with model pores and carriers .
discrimination of ions depends on both electrostatic and steric forces .
`` black-box '' studies on intact biological membranes have in some cases yielded molecular clues to the structure of the actual biological pores and carriers .
major current problems involve the extraction of these molecules ; how to do it , what to do when it is achieved , and how ( and if ) it is relevant to the central problems of membrane function .
further advances are expected soon from studies of rate barriers within membranes , of voltage-dependent ( `` excitable '' ) conducting channels , and of increasingly complex model systems and biological membranes .
photoreceptor processes : some problems and perspectives .
visual photoreceptors from both vertebrates and invertebrates are characterized by extensive elaboration of membrane which contains visual pigment ( rhodopsin ) .
visual pigments in all phyla examined are chemically similar : the chromophore is 11-cis retinaldehyde attached by an aldimine linkage ( schiff base ) to a membrane protein , opsin .
the effect of light is to isomerize the chromophore to the all-trans configuration .
beyond these fundamental similarities , several specific areas are discussed in which variations and differences appear .
( 1 ) light causes vertebrate visual pigments to bleach , liberating the chromophore .
most invertebrate visual pigments do not bleach in the light , but instead form a thermally stable metarhodopsin , with the chromophore in the all-trans configuration still attached to the opsin .
( 2 ) in the disk membranes of vertebrate rod and cone outer segments , the rhodopsin molecules are oriented with their chromophores nearly coplanar with the disks .
within this plane , however , both rotational and translational diffusion are possible .
in the microvillar membranes of arthropod and cephalopod rhabdoms , on the other hand , the situation is less clear .
there is evidence for some preferential orientation of chromophores that implies restrictions on brownian rotation .
( 3 ) in the outer segments of vertebrate receptors , absorption of light by rhodopsin causes the plasma membrane to hyperpolarize due to a decrease in sodium conductance , possibly mediated by calcium ions .
in most invertebrate photoreceptors , light causes a depolarization due to an increase in conductance , principally to sodium ions .
a subsequent entry of calcium causes a partial repolarization of the membrane , due to a decrease in sodium conductance .
( 4 ) for vertebrate receptors , log threshold is directly proportional to the fraction of rhodopsin bleached ( dowling-rushton relationship ) .
the proportionality constant varies in different preparations from less than four to more than 30 , and the physical basis for the relationship is unknown .
for invertebrates , by contrast , the dependence of sensitivity on rhodopsin concentration is much less dramatic and may well depend simply on the probability of quantum catch .
( 5 ) in most species , vertebrate and invertebrate , the accumulation of photoproduct probably has no effect on membrane conductance , but several possible exceptions exist .
( 6 ) photoregeneration of rhodopsin from metarhodopsin is likely an important mechanism of recovery in certain arthropods such as diurnal insects , but dark mechanisms of recovery also exist in all phyla .
in no single case are they adequately understood .
hydrolysis of the hen egg vitelline membrane by cock sperm acrosin and other enzymes .
a technique utilizing pregnant mare's serum gonadotropin and human chorionic gonadotropin treatment of hens ( gallus domesticus ) , followed by manual ovulation of the excised follicles , was developed to obtain a large number of mature ova .
the intact ova were used to test whether acrosin , partially purified from the spermatozoa of the cock ( gallus domesticus ) , partially purified rabbit testicular acrosin and commercial preparations of several hydrolytic enzymes could dissolve the inner vitelline membrane .
enzymes were applied to pieces of filter paper placed on the ovum .
cock acrosin and endopeptidases such as trypsin , chymotrypsin , collagenase and elastase hydrolyzed the membrane whereas exopeptidases such as leucine aminopeptidase and carboxypeptidase a did not .
phospholipase a , sulfatase , hyaluronidase , beta-glucuronidase and rabbit testicular acrosin also failed to hydrolyze the membrane .
cock acrosin hydrolysis of the ovum surface was inhibited by soybean trypsin inhibitor .
the surface of the ovum over the germinal disc region was hydrolyzed more quickly by cock acrosin than the surface over other regions of the ovum .
acrosin from cock sperm caused the release of trichloroacetic acid soluble material absorbing at 280 nm from sonicated preparations of inner vitelline membranes .
hydrolysis was greatest at ph 8.0 and was inhibited by soybean trypsin inhibitor .
studies on renal tubular acidosis in collagen diseases .
part ii .
the response of patients with collagen diseases to an acid load .
a field survey on home environmental sanitation in two districts of kaohsiung city , taiwan .
inactivation of formosan snake venoms in vitro by the crude extract of aristolochia radix .
takayasu's arteritis with coronary arterial occlusion and preinfarction angina .
some effects of low ph on chloride exchange in human red blood cells .
in order to test the range of ph values over which the titratable carried model for inorganic anion exchange is valid , chloride self-exchange across human red blood cells was examined between ph 4.75 and 5.7 at 0 decrees c .
it was found that chloride self-exchange flux had a minimum near ph 5 and increased again with further increase in hydrogen ion activity .
the arrhenius activation energy for chloride exchange was greatly reduced at low ph values .
the chloride flux at ph 5.1 did not show the saturation kinetics reported at higher ph values but was proportional to the value of the chloride concentration squared .
in addition , the extent of inhibition of chloride self-exchange flux by phloretin was reduced at low ph .
our interpretation of these findings is that the carrier-mediated flux becomes a progressively smaller fraction of the total flux at lower ph values and that a different transport mode requiring two chloride ions to form the permeant species and having a low specificity and temperature dependence becomes significant below ph5 .
a possible mechanism for this transport is that chloride crosses red cell membranes as dimers of hcl at these very low ph values .
ionic properties of the acetylcholine receptor in cultured rat myotubes .
the acetylcholine reversal potential ( er ) of cultured rat myotubes is -3mv .
when activated , the receptor is permeable to k+ and na+ , but not to cl- ions .
measurement of er in tris+-substituted , na-free medium also indicated a permeability to tris+ ions .
unlike adult frog muscle the magnitude of er was insensitive to change in external ca++ ( up to 30 mm ) or to changes in external ph ( between 6.4 and 8.9 ) .
the equivalent circuit equation describing the electrical circuit composed of two parallel ionic batteries ( ek and ena ) and their respective conductances ( gk and gna ) , which has been generally useful in describing the er of adult rat and frog muscle , could also be applied to rat myotubes when er was measured over a wide range of external na+ concentrations .
the equivalent circuit equation could not be applied to myotubes bathed in media of different external k+ concentrations .
in this case , the er was more closely described by the goldman constant field equation .
under certain circumstances , it is known that the receptor in adult rat and frog muscle can be induced to reversibly shift from behavior described by the equivalent circuit equation to that described by the goldman equation .
attempts to similarly manipulate the responses of cultured rat myotubes were unsussessful .
these trials included a reduction in temperature ( 15 degress c ) , partial alpha-bungarotoxin blodkade , and activation of responses with the cholinergic agonist , decamethonium .
effect of cross-reinnervation on physiological parameters and on properties of myosin and sarcoplasmic reticulum of fast and slow muscles of the rabbit .
cross-reinnvervation of fast ( extensor digitorum longus ) and slow ( soleus ) twitch muscles of the rabbit showed essentially complete fast to slow and slow to fast conversion , respectively , 11-12 mo after surgery with respect to a number of physiological parameters including intrinsic shortening , velocity , and isometric twitch time to peak .
there was pronounced bu incomplete biochemical conversion as judged by ca2+ uptake by sarcoplasmic reticulum , myosin atpase , alkali lability , and light chain complement .
the question of trophic substances of neural origin is discussed in light of the fact that chronic stimulation for 15 wk of a fast muscle produces complete biochemical and physiological conversion to the slow type .
chitin synthase in mortierella vinacea : properties , cellular location and synthesis in growing cultures .
chitin synthase of mortierella vinacea was present in the `` microsomal ' fraction ( 100 000 g precipitate ) , the 'cell-wall ' fraction ( 2000 g precipitate ) and the 'mitochondrial ' fraction ( 10 000 g precipitate ) .
the properties of the 'microsomal ' enzyme were investigated .
the ph optimum was between 5-8 and 6-2 , and the temperature optimum was between 31 and 33 degrees c .
the km for udp n-acetyl-d-glucosamine was 1.8 mm .
the enzyme was stimulated by mg2+ and a slight stimulation was also effected by n-acetyl-d-glucosamine .
soluble chitodextrins were inhibitory .
a ph-dependent , heat-stable inhibitor of chitin synthase activity was present in the soluble cytoplasm from the mycelium .
the effects of aeration and glucose concentration on enzyme production in growing cultures were also investigated ; maximum specific activity of chitin synthase was associated with the cessation of exponential growth .
protoplasts of schizosaccharomyces pombe : an improved method for their preparation and the study of their guanine uptake .
a new method is described for the efficient conversion of schizosaccharomyces pombe cells into protoplasts .
the following parameters of guanine uptake determined in whole cells were unchanged in protoplasts : km value , requirement for an energy source , sensitivity to competitive inhibitors , ph optimum , as well as the typical variation of the initial velocity of uptake observed during the growth phase .
manganese mutagenesis in yeast .
a practical application of manganese for the induction of mitochondrial antibiotic-resistant mutations .
when yeast cells were incubated for 4 to 8 h in yeast extract-peptone-glucose medium , ph 6 , containing 8 mm-manganese , and then plated on selective media , there was a strong induction of antibiotic-resistant mutations .
indirect evidence suggests that practically all resistant mutants selected were of independent origin .
the analysis of manganese-induced resistant mutants showed that most were extranuclear , while those tested showed recombination with known mitochondrial markers .
our results suggest that manganese can be considered as a mutagen which specifically induces mitochondrial mutations in saccharomyces cerevisiae .
the properties and large-scale production of l-asparaginase from citrobacter .
an intracellular l-asparaginase with antitumour activity was purified from a strain of citrobacter .
the optimum conditions for enzyme production by fermentation on scales up to 2700 l were investigated .
highest enzyme yield was obtained in corn-steep liquor medium ( 9-2 % , w/v ) at 37 degrees c .
oxygen limitation was not necessary for high enzyme yield .
a total recovery of 4-3 % from nucleic-acid-free extract and a 180-fold increase in specific activity were obtained after purificaiton .
the specific activity of the purified preparation was 45 i.u./mg protein .
the enzyme hydrolysed d-asparagine and l-glutamine at 7 and 5 % , respectively , of its activity toward l-asparagine , but l-glutaminase activity could be demonstrated only at substrate concentrations above 5 mm .
the km values for l-asparagine and d-asparagine were 2-6 x 10 ( -5 ) and 1-4 x 10 ( -4 ) respectively .
the anti-lymphoma activity of the enzyme was demonstrated with gardner lymphosarcoma and was found only slightly less potent that crasnitin , the most active asparaginase so far tested in this system .
effect of inorganic phosphate on acridine inhibition and plasmid curing in escherichia coli .
some mutants and stock strains of escherichia coli k12 were sensitive to acriflavine in the presence of inorganic phosphate but were resistant to acriflavine in its absence .
they mutated spontaneously to resistance to acriflavine plus phosphate .
the synergistic effect of phosphate on acriflavine sensitivity was increased at high ph values .
genetic analysis suggested that the mutations occurred in the gene acra .
electron microscopic observation suggested that the presence of acriflavine plus phosphate affected the structure of the plasma membrane and the cytoplasm under it .
this structural alteration was not caused by acriflavine alone .
acridine orange plus phosphate can more effectively eliminate the plasmid f8-gal+ than acridine orange alone .
oxidation of carbon monoxide and methane by pseudomonas methanica .
the oxidation of carbon monoxide and methane by suspensions and ultrasonic extracts of pseudomonas methanica was studied .
a continuous assay for the oxidation of co to co2 was devised , using o2 and co2 electrodes in combination .
stoicheiometries of co-dependent co2 formation , o2 consumption and nadh oxidation , and the partial stoicheiometries of methane-dependent nadh oxidation , suggest the involvement of a mono-oxygenase in these oxidations .
evidence is presented suggesting methane and co oxidation are catalysed by a single enzyme system , distinct , at least in part , from the nadh oxidase present in extracts .
ethanol was able to provide the reductant necessary for co oxidation by cell suspensions , though the metabolism of ethanol by p. methanica was found unlikely to result in substrate-level formation of nadh ; the means whereby alcohol oxidation could supply reductant for the mono-oxygenase are discussed .
systematic desensitization to reduce dream-induced anxiety .
a modified version of systematic desensitization was used to reduce the anxiety and negative interpersonal consequences produced by a recurrent aversive dream resulting from events in the real world .
the subject , a 16-year-old incarcerated male , was first taught a standard relaxation technique .
the subject's dream was divided into 12 hierarchical imaginal scenes .
following initial relaxation , each scene was sequentially introduced and followed by the therapist's suggestion that the subject was still very relaxed .
after three sessions with the therapists and several practice sessions by himself , the subject reported no further anxiety to the dream ( which continued to occur ) and improved relations with the institutional staff .
six months of follow-up showed no recurrence of the anxiety or the subsequent irritability which the subject had initially reported as leading to negative interpersonal relations with the staff .
cerebral aromatic aminotransferase .
stearyl coenzyme a desaturase activities in rat brain microsomes .
atpase activity of neuroblastoma cells in culture .
experimental evaluation of the spasmogenicity of dopamine on the basilar artery .
arteriograms of the basilar artery reveal that dopamine given intracisternally to dogs can generate cerebral vasospasm .
this finding supports a recent hypothesis of others that dopamine may play a role in the pathogenesis of vasospasm , especially since many substances are known which fail to produce such spasm .
compared to blood or prostaglandin e2 , however , the spasm induced by dopamine was delayed in onset , less in incidence , and usually less intense .
possible explanations for such experimental differences are discussed .
the evolving role of the nurse and the neurosurgical physician's assistant in the treatment of intractable pain states .
the neurosurgical nurse as a departmental assistant .
fatty acid and ketone body metabolism in the rat : response to diet and exercise .
this study was designed to measure the response of key enzymes of ketone body metabolism in heart , skeletal muscle , and liver to diet and exercise , two conditions known to influence ketone body utilization .
a 3 ( diet : control , high fat , or high carbohydrate ) x 2 ( kill condition : rested or exhausted ) x 2 ( training : trained or untrained ) factorial design was used to estimate main experimental effects as well as identify significant interactions of the variables .
physical training ( treadmill running ) was associated with a doubling of the activity of skeletal muscle 3-oxoacid coa transferase , a key enzyme in extrahepatic ketone body utilization .
the activity of the rate-limiting enzyme of liver ketone body production , hydroxymethylglutaryl coa synthetase ( hmg coa synthetase ) , was not greatly influenced by training or exhuastive exercise indicating that the metabolic control of the ketosis of exercise may more likely be a function of the supply of fatty acids to the liver rather than the activity of hmg coa synthetase .
feeding a high fat diet , on the other hand , significantly increased the activity of liver hmg coa synthetase , indicating that the ketosis of fat feeding may be of a different nature than that of exercise .
the results of this study indicate that physical training is associated with biochemical adaptations in ketone body metabolism as well as fatty acid oxidation , and that trained individuals are metabolically better endowed to benefit from the ketosis of exercise than untrained individuals .
some mechanisms of reduction of carotenoid levels in chickens infected with eimeria acervulina or e. tenella .
the levels of plasma carotenoids were markedly reduced in broiler cockerels infected with eimeria acervulina or e. tenella .
the mechanisms of this depigmentation differed between the two species , being primarily associated with interference of absorption of xanthophyll ( carotenoids ) from the intestinal lumen with e. acervulina infection and with leakage through the damaged wall of the cecum with e. tenella infection .
chicks reared on an essentially carotenoid-free diet and inoculated with e. acervulina showed no detectable levels of carotenoids in the blood 48 hours after being changed to a diet containing 30 mg of xanthophyll/kg .
conversely , uninoculated chicks and chicks inoculated with e. tenella showed significant and similar increases in plasma levels of carotenoids .
chicks reared on a diet containing xanthophyll and inoculated with e. tenella showed a more rapid decrease in plasma carotenoids than did uninoculated controls when changed to a xanthophyll-free diet .
in chicks fed high xanthophyll diets containing chromic oxide , no indication of malabsorption was seen in chicks infected with e. tenella compared with uninoculated controls , whereas chicks inoculated with e. acervulina showed significantly less xanthophyll absorption .
conversely , a marked increase in the xanthophyll : cr2o3 ratio was observed in the cecal contents of chicks inoculated with e. tenella compared with uninuoculated controls or those inoculated with e. acervulina .
studies of uninoculated chicks pair-fed with chicks inoculated with e. acervulina or e. tenella indicated that the decrease in plasma carotenoids and increases in intestinal ph are not associated with the reduced intake of feed associated with infection .
the studies involving uninoculated birds with reciprocal chagnes between high and low xanthophyll diets indicated that plasma carotenoids are a more rapid and sensitive means of measuring changes in pigmentation levels than are visual skin scores carotenoid levels from the skin .
metabolic studies on the development of ethanol-induced fatty liver in kk-ay mice .
mechanisms involved in the development of the alcoholic fatty liver in kk-ay mice were investigated .
incorporation studies using [ 14c ] acetate and [ 3h ] palmitate indicated that the half-life of hepatic triglycerides was doubled in the ethanol-ingesting mice , and utilization of the exogenous fat was significantly increases as compared with that of the control .
no persistent alteration was recognized in hepatic oxidation of palmitate , as estimated by in vitro experiments using liver slices obtained from control and ethanol-drinking mice .
enzymic studies indicated that the activities of acetyl coa carboxylase , atp citrate lyase , malic enzyme , and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase were increased with ethanol drinking .
the increment in hepatic triglycerides accumulated during ethanol ingestion was largely accounted for by palmitoleic , oleic , and linoleic acids .
these findings demonstrated an augmentation in hepatic lipogenesis as well as an increased utilization of exogenous fats .
ethanol drinking did not cause any appreciable change in plasma triglyceride level and metabolism of adipose tissue .
in summary of the present studies , accelerated lipogenesis and increased utilization of the dietary fats may be possible causal factors in the alcoholic fatty liver of kk-ay mice .
different reactivities of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and 5-bromouracil in the bisulfite-mediated debromination .
renal response to acid loading in the developing lamb fetus , intact in utero .
response of the fetal kidney to metabolic acidosis was studied in five fetal lambs , 115-125 days gestation , in order to evaluate the renal contribution to elimination of hydrogen ion during intra-uterine development .
experiments were conducted on healthy unanesthetized fetuses , intact in utero , with catheters implanted at hysterotomy into a fetal femoral artery and vein and into the bladder via the urachus , four or more days prior to the study .
a metabolic acidosis was induced by infusion of isotonic lactic acid , 15 m mole/kg , intravenously over a period of 90 minutes .
serial arterial samples were taken and urine collected in fractions before , during and for three hours following the infusion , for measurements of ph , bicarbonate , lactate and electrolytes as well as urine output .
during the infusion , urine ph fell from 6.65 to 6.25 and was 6.34 three hours later ( figs. 1 to 4 , tabs. iii to iv ) .
lactic acid infusion caused a prompt increase in urine output from a mean rate of 0.12 to a maximum of 0.28 ml/kg/min at the end of the infusion , returning to control rates three hours later .
lactate excretion increased from 0.05 to a maximum of 4.6 mumole/kg/min at the end of infusion ; titratable acid increased from 0.22 to a maximum of 4 mueq/kg/min ; the rates of excretion of lactate and titratable acid were still higher than control at the end of three hours .
ammonia excretion increased from 0.21 to a maximum of 0.56 mueq/kg/min three hours after the end of infusion .
the acid infusion caused a small but significant fall in excretion of bicarbonate .
during the 90 minutes of infusion and over the following three hours , about 800 mumole lactate was excreted while net acid excretion over the same period was no more than half that amount .
the diuresis was also accompanied by a net loss of sodium and chloride , the excretion of these ions increasing more than threefold following acid infusion ; excretion of potassium decreased to one-third its rate prior to the infusion .
during the 90 minutes of infusion , blood ph fell from 7.36 to 7.13 , base deficit rose from 3.8 to 16.4 meq/l and lactate rose from 2.2 to 14.8 mm/l ; there was also a small but significant rise in both blood pco2 and po2 ( figs. 1 to 2 , tabs. i to ii ) .
during the following three hours of recovery , ph rose gradually to 7.29 , base deficit and lactate fell to 7.4 meq/l and 8.7 mm/l respectively .
since renal excretion of net acid and lactate was small , the decrease in blood base deficit and lactate levels during the recovery must therefore be mainly due to equilibration in various fetal compartments as well as placental transfer .
these experiments indicate that , in the lamb fetus , intact in utero , the kidney although limited by immaturity of several mechanisms , is capable of responding to an acid load and thus can make a small contribution to fetal homeostasis .
the increase in excretion of net acid is accompanied by loss of sodium and chloride in the urine .
recognition and significance of maternogenic fetal acidosis during intensive monitoring of labor .
fhr monitoring and microanalysis of fetal blood are mutually complementary procedures , and optimal knowledge of the fetal state is achieved by making use of both , the former for the preliminary screening of all cases at risk and the latter for the purpose of deciding on obstetric management where pathological changes are evident in the fhr .
the major difficulty in obtaining a precise value for the fetal acid-base balance lies in the occurence of `` falsely abnormal '' cases , i.e. cases in which the fetal ph falls during labor but the clinical condition at birth is good ( apgar greater than or equal to 7 ) .
in our own series the incidence of such cases among fetuses at risk was 11.2 % ( tab. i ) .
in the majority of these cases the fetal acidosis is thought to be a result of increased metabolic acidosis in the mother ( maternogenic fetal metabolic acidosis ) .
the importance of the maternogenic fetal acidosis during labor lies in the fact that unless it is recognised , rapid extraction of the fetus will appear necessary on clinical grounds , although it is in fact unnecessary , since this form of acidosis has no adverse effect on the fetus .
various parameters have been proposed for the differential diagnosis of the maternogenic fetal acidosis .
these include the feto-maternal difference in base deficit ( f/m deltabd ) , the materno-fetal differences in phqu 40 ( m/f deltaphqu 40 ) the materno-fetal difference actual ph ( m/f actual deltaph ) , and the materno-fetal difference in base deficit of the extra-cellular fluid ( m/f deltabdhb5 ) .
a critical analysis of these parameters has been carried out on the results of microtests performed during a 5 year period ( 1968-1972 ) at the first clinic of obstetrics and gynecology of milan university .
the cases comprised 59 regarded as normal ( normal course of pregnancy , spontaneous commencement of labor at term , clear amniotic fluid , regular fhr , spontaneous birth , apgar at 90 sec between 8 and 10 , weight at birth greater than 2500 g ) , and 335 considered to be at risk ( maternal disease , presence of meconium stained amniotic fluid and/or abnormal changes in fhr ) .
in all of these cases the fhr was recorded by cardiotokography , and the tracings were interpreted according to hon .
microsamples of blood were taken from both mother and fetus during labor and the following determinations were carried out : actual ph , phqu 40 , hb concentration , hemoglobin oxygen saturation , base deficit hb5 ( bdhb5 ) .
the maternofetal differences were then calculated .
the same determinations were carried out on samples of maternal blood and of arterial and venous cord blood taken immediately after delivery .
the clinical condition of the infant was evaluated by the apgar score at 90 seconds after birth .
solubilization and stabilization of the cytotoxic agent coralyne .
kinetic studies were carried out on the ring opening of the quaternary nitrogen cation , coralynium ion ( i ) , to yield 6'-acetylpapaverine ( iii ) , on the cyclization of iii to yield i , and on a photochemical reaction undergone by i in aqueous solutions exposed to visible light .
from the results , it was concluded that : ( a ) i and iii are in facile equilibrium in aqueous solution but appreciable amounts of iii do not exist in dilute solutions with ph values below 10 : ( b ) the photochemical reaction of i in water ( presumably a photohydration ) can be reversed by lyophilization , by heatiing , and by increasing the ph of solutions to values greater than 12 ; ( c ) the photochemical reaction of i can be inhibited by protecting the aqueous solutions from visible light , and the rate in the presence of light can be reduced by increasing the concentration of i in the solution ; and ( d ) although the chloride and sulfoacetate salts of i react identically and have similar solubilities in water , it is possible to prepare more concentrated and , hence , more stable solutions of the sulfoacetate salt by including sodium hydroxide in the solvent .
the solubility of coralyne chloride remains about the same in dilute sodium hydroxide as in water .
solvolysis of a substituted imidazoline , mazindol .
hydrolysis of mazindol to form 2- ( 2-aminoethyl ) -3- ( p-chlorophenyl ) -3-hydroxyphthalimidine was followed spectro-photometrically in aqueous solutions at temperatures between 37 and 70degree , ph values up to 7.6 , and an ionic strength of 0.2 .
the effects of acetate , formate , and phosphate buffers as well as ionic strength on the observed rate constants were investigated .
an interesting nonlinear dependency of the kobs with buffer concentration was noted .
the velocity constants declined with increasing hydrogen-ion concentration ; the log k-ph profile and rate law are given along with other relevant data .
complexation in formulation of parenteral solutions : solubilization of the cytotoxic agent hexamethylmelamine by complexation with gentisic acid species .
the apparent solubility of hexamethylmelamine in aqueous solutions suitable for intravenous use was increased by complexation with gentisic acid .
studies were carried out in the ph 0-8 range .
unprotonated hexamethylmelamine did not form complexes with the gentisate ion , while the hexamethylmelammonium ion appeared to form several different complexes with both the gentidate ion and gentisic acid .
two different solid complexes were isolated and characterized .
the solubility increases observed at ph 3.5-5.0 are described by mathematical relationships involving the stability constants of some postulated complex species .
from these results , sultable formulations for use as parenteral solutions are proposed .
the increase in the apparent aqueous solubility of hexamethylmelamine in such formulations may range from five- to 90-fold , depending upon the ph and total gentisateion concentrations .
inhibitory effect of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate on trypsin activity .
the inhibitory effect of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate on the proteolytic activity of trypsin was investigate over the ph 6-8 range .
the antitryptic activity was determined using two different substrates : casein and n , alpha-benzoyl-dl-arginine-p-nitroanilide hydrochloride .
the mechanistic studies revealed the substrate-inhibitor interaction to be the overall major mechanism of inhibition .
this interaction was shown to involve substrate depletion , probably involving some primary sites of the natural substrate casein .
some inhibition was also shown to be due to an interaction between the enzyme and the inhibitior molecules .
the interactions of the inhibitor with the enzyme and the substrate were irreversible .
the possible therapeutic significance of the inhibitory effect of the surfactant is discussed .
in vitro adsorption of diphenoxylate hydrochloride on activated charcoal and its relationship to pharmacological effects of drug in vivo .
the adsorption of diphenoxylate hydrochloride , a potent antidiarrheal agent , on activated charcoal powder was studied in vitro .
langmuir adsorption isotherms were established at ph 4 and 7 , and the maximum adsorption capacity of charcoal for this drug was estimated using these values .
activated charcoal modified the bioavailability of diphenoxylate hydrochloride in vivo .
the antipropulsive action of diphenoxylate in the mouse was strongly inhibited in the presence of activated charcoal .
a comparative evaluation of charcoal and chromium oxide used as inert , nonabsorbable markers revealed that chromium oxide may be the marker of choic in gi transit studies in laboratory animals since it does not influence the bioavailability of diphenoxylate hydrochloride .
binding of bile acids to cholestyramine at gastric ph conditions .
the binding of bile salts to cholestyramine was studied under varying conditions of ph and added electrolyte .
the taurine-conjugated bile salts were strongly absorbed by the anion-exchange resin at low ph and in the presence of chloride anions .
glycocholic acid binding was very weak at low ph but increased strongly with increasing ph .
the presence of chloride ions strongly decreased the amount of glycocholate bound by the anion-exchange resin .
group contribution data obtained by ion-pair extraction of prostaglandin b2 with aliphatic amines .
amodiaquin accumulation by mouse erythrocytes infected with plasmodium berghei .
[ 14c ] amodiaquin accumulation by washed erythrocyte preparations was characterized to permit comparisons with chloroquine accumulation .
erythrocytes infected with plasmodium berghei cs ( chloroquine-susceptible ) accumulate amodiaquin by a saturable process that has an apparent dissociation constant for amodiaquin of 7.6 x 10 ( -8 ) m and is competitively inhibited by chloroquine , quinine and quinacrine , as is the process of chloroquine accumulation .
within experimental error , the k1 of 8 x 10 ( -7 ) m estimated for chloroquine is the same regardless of whether the drug being accumulated is [ 14c ] amodiaquin or [ 14c ] chloroquine .
likewise , the k1 for amodiaquin is the same regardless of which drug is being accumulated .
in addition , glucose stimulates and hydrogen ion , cold or interruption of glycolysis inhibits amodiaquin as well as chloroquine accumulation .
these findings are evidence that a single process serves to accumulate both drugs .
in the absence of substrate , erythrocytes infected with p. berghei cr ( chloroquine-resistant ) accumulate twice as much amodiaquin as chloroquine , and they accumulate more amodiaquin than do erythrocytes infected with p. berghei cs .
these differences occur because p. berghei cr infects polychromatophilic erythrocytes possessing a high-affinity , substrate-independent process of accumulation to which amodiaquin has greater access than chloroquine .
in the presence of glucose , amodiaquin accumulation by erythrocytes infected with p. berghei cr , when plotted as a function of amodiaquin concentration in the medium , describes a sigmoid curve .
the neurochemistry of parkinson's disease : effect of l-dopa therapy .
post-mortem brain material from control and parkinson's disease patients was examined to elucidate further the neurochemistry of this disease and to determine the mechanism of action of l-dopa as a therapeutic agent .
the activities of l-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase ( dopa d ) , tyrosine hydroxylase , monoamine oxidase and catechol-o-methyl transferase were examined ; in addition the tissue levels of dopa , 3-o-methyldopa , dopamine ( da ) and homovanillic acid ( hva ) were determined .
in the non-dopa-treated parkinsonian patients , the greatest decreases were detected for striatal da and dopa d , with homovanillic acid and tyrosine hydroxylase levels showing a lesser change .
the activities of monoamine oxidase and catechol-o-methyl transferase in the striatal nuclei were not different from the controls .
the putamen was consistently the most severely affected region .
dopa and 3-o-methyldopa were detectable in all brain areas only in those patients treated with l-dopa shortly before death .
the mean concentrations of da in the striatum of these patients were 1 ) 9 to 15 times higher than those in non-dopa-treated patients , 2 ) related to the time before death of the last dose of l-dopa and 3 ) greater in the striatum of patients clinically classified as `` good responders '' as compared to `` poor responders . ''
although l-dopa therapy increased homovanillic acid levels in all brain areas , a preferential increase was observed in the striatum .
it was concluded that l-dopa's principal therapeutic effects in parkinson's disease are consistent with its transformation to da in the striatum .
studies on the mechanism of depletion of striatal dopamine by alpha-methyl-m-tyrosine .
these experiments were designed to study the mechanism of depletion of dopamine ( da ) in the striatum produced by alpha-methyl-m-tyrosine ( alpha-mmt ) .
alpha-methyl-m-tyramine ( alpha-mmta ) , the metabolite of alpha-mmt , appears to be the active da-depleting agent , since the administration of a decarboxylase inhibitor before alpha-mmt markedly reduced both the formation of alpha-mmta and the depletion of da .
after injection of alpha-mmt ( 100 mg/kg i.p. ) , the striatal concentration of homovanillic acid ( hva ) rose by 41 % at 1 hour .
this is probably due to an increase in da metabolism , since alpha-mmt markedly enhanced the decline of da produced by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine ( alpha-mpt ) .
at 2 , 3 and 4 hours after alpha-mmt , the concentration of hva and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was below control level .
the decrease in dihydroxyphenylacetic acid is due partially to a decreased formation of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid from da .
in striatal slices , both alpha-mmt and alpha-mmta decreased the formation of 3h-h2o and the accumulation of 3h-da from 1-3,5-3h-tyrosine .
alpha-mmt did not alter the specific activity of 3h-tyrosine or release 3h-da from the slices , but it did inhibit the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in striatal homogenates at low concentrations of tyrosine ( 10 mum ) .
alpha-mmta released both newly synthesized and exogenously accumulated 3h-da from striatal slices .
at low concentrations of alpha-mmta , the percent reduction in 3h-h2o was much greater than the percentage of 3h-da released into the medium .
however , at higher concentrations , the inhibition of 3h-h2o reached a maximum while 3h-da release kept increasing .
these results suggest that both inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase activity and da release from storage sites by alpha-mmta may account for the depletion of da produced by the injection of alpha-mmt .
characteristics of gastric inhibition by acidification of oxyntic gland area .
1. gastric acid responses to the test meals were measured in the heidenhain pouch , gastric and pancreatic fistula dogs , using the intragastric titration method , and monitoring the rate at which a solution of 1-0 n-naoh had to be added to maintain the ph of the gastric content constant at pre-selected values ranging from 5-0 to 1-0 .
in this way the ph profile of the gastric acid and pepsin responses to a liver extract meal kept in the heidenhain pouch or gastric fistula as well as to exogenous stimuli such as histamine , pentagastrin or urecholine could be determined .
2. a liver extract meal adjusted to ph 5-0 produced a potent and pressure-related stimulation of acid secretion from the heidenhain pouch without any change in secretion from the main stomach and pancreas or in the serum concentration of immuno-assayable gastrin .
3. graded decrease of the liver extract meal ph to below 5-0 resulted in the ph-dependent inhibition of gastric acid output , which at ph 1-0 was only about 30 % of the value attained at ph 5-0 .
acid secretion from the heidenhain pouch induced by exogenous stimuli such as histamine , pentagastrin or urecholine also showed gradual decrease when the ph of the pouch content was decreased in sequential order from 5-0 to 1-0 .
this ph-dependent inhibition was accompanied by an increase in pepsin secretion .
4. the ph-dependent inhibition of the heidenhain pouch response to the liver extract meal was not altered by topical application of a local anaesthetic and atropine or by the intravenous infusion of large doses of atropine , secretin or metiamide , which were shown to cause a marked inhibition of the main stomach response to the liver meal .
5. the results indicate that there is a local and gastrin-independent inhibition mechanism of gastric acid secretion activated by an acidified meal making contact with the oxyntic gland area .
the influence of ph on equilibrium effects of tetrodotoxin on myelinated nerve fibres of rana esculenta .
1. the experiments were done on single nodes of ranvier of rana esculenta .
the effects of tetrodotoxin and h ions were determined either by the reduction of the maximum rate of rise , va , of action potentials evoked with threshold stimuli or in the voltage clamp by the decrease of the peak na permeability , pna .
2. with the tetrodotoxin sample used throughout the investigation the equilibrium dissociation constant , kt , of the toxin-receptor reaction at neutral ph was determined to be 2-8 nm .
between 1-55 and 15-5 nm tetrodotoxin the normalized value , a , of va , was found to be related to the normalized toxin concentration ct = [ ttx ] /2-8 nm by the empirical equation log [ ( 1-a ) /a ] = 1-22 log ct-0-573. 3 .
on increasing the ph ( up to 8-8 ) the effect of tetrodotoxin diminished as revealed by an increase in a .
the apparent reduction of ct ( as calculated from a ) suggests that the toxin is active only in its cationic forms .
4. weakly acid tetrodotoxin solutions ( 7-3 less than ph less than or equal to 5-5 ) reduced a to a lesser degree than did neutral toxin solutions in spite of the inherent depressing effect of acid ph on a ( a = 0-5 at about ph 5-5 ) .
in more acid toxin solutions a decreased again and at ph 4-6 it was about equal to the value in toxin-free solution .
5. when , after equilibrium in an acid toxin solution , the perfusate was suddenly changed to neutral ringer solution a jumped to a higher value a ' as measured 1 sec after the switch .
since the blocking effect of hydrogen ions subsided within a fraction of a second while the time constant of the toxin washout is of the order of 1 min , a ' reflects the number of na channels blocked by tetrodotoxin at acid ph .
6. in acid toxin-free solution the peak pna as obtained in voltage clamp experiments was reduced by a voltage-dependent factor ( ch + 1 ) -1 with ch = [ h+ ] /kh ( e ) and kh ( e ) = 2-04 mum exp ( 0-34 ef/rt ) .
adding tetrodotoxin resulted in another reduction by a constant factor p't. 7 .
experiments employing various combinations of toxin concentration ( 3-1-93 nm ) and ph values ( 7-3-5-2 ) confirm the decreased toxin effect at low ph .
moreover , p't was smaller ( the additional toxin effect larger ) when the membrane had been kept depolarized and thus ch reduced during equilibration .
this suggests that tetrodotoxin cations and h ions compete for the same blocking site .
a quantitative fit , however , requires additional assumptions .
the influence of ph on the rate of tetrodotoxin action on myelinated nerve fibres .
1. the experiments were done on single myelinated nerve fibres of rana esculenta .
the rates of toxin effect were studied either by measuring the maximum rate of rise , va , of repetitively evoked action potentials or by measuring na currents during periodic impulses in the voltage clamp .
2. va measurements showed that in alkaline solutions ( ph up to 8-8 ) the offset rate was unchanged while the onset was slowed in quantitative agreement with an assumed decrease in the active cationic form of tetrodotoxin .
3. both va measurements and those in the voltage clamp revealed a decrease in t'off , the offset time constant and in increase in the onset time constant , t'on , as the ph was lowered .
4. for tetrodotoxin concentrations , [ ttx ] , up to 400 nm and ph values down to 5-3 the simple relation t'on/t'off = p'r held , where p't is the constant factor by which the na permeability was reduced at equilibrium with a given [ ttx ] .
5. the agreement between kinetic and equilibrium results was also valid when , at constant [ ttx ] and ph .
p't was modified by the holding potential during equilibration .
6. no unequivocal explanation of the results can be given but some of their features resemble acid catalysis .
the formation of synapses in amphibian striated muscle during development .
1. a study has been made of the formation of synapses in developing reinnervated and cross-reinnervated amphibian twitch muscles which receive either a focal ( iliofibularis ) or a distributed ( sartorius ) innervation from 'en plaque ' nerve terminals using histological , ultrastructural and electrophysiological techniques .
2. during the development of the tadpole through metamorphosis to the adult frog , the sartorius myofibres increased in length at about twice the rate of the iliofibularis myofibres , due to a fast rate of growth at their insertions on to the pelvic tendon .
3. the short iliofibularis and sartorius myofibres of young tadpoles ( 800 mum long ) possessed only a single synapse and the iliofibularis myofibres did not receive any further innervation during development .
however the sartorius myofibres received further transient innervation on the new muscle laid down during development at the fast growing pelvic insertion , until the distance between the original synapse formed on the myofibres and the synapse at the pelvic end of the muscle was about 12 mm. 4 .
during development synapses possessed either skewed , multimodal , or unimodal m.e.p.p. amplitude-frequency distributions ; the intervals between m.e.p.p.s. were not distributed randomly according to a poisson process , as m.e.p.p.s. of similar amplitudes tended to be separated by very short intervals ; the unit-size e.p.p. had a similar amplitude-frequency distribution as the m.e.p.p.s. if these had a unimodal distribution .
5. reinnervation or cross-reinnervation of the sartorius and the iliofibularis muscles in adults or at a late stage of development simply reconstituted the normal focal and distributed innervation patterns of the muscles , as found in the control muscles of the contralateral and unoperated legs .
6. these observations on synapse formation in amphibia are consistent with the hypothesis that during development the axon making the initial synaptic contact on the muscle cells induces a property over a length of muscle membrane adjacent to this site which makes it refractory to synapse formation ; thus during reinnervation or cross-reinnervation of adult muscles this refractory property constrains synapse formation to these sites .
comparative studies of trypanosoma vespertilionis battaglia and trypanosoma dionisii bettencourt & franca .
in diphasic blood agar media trypanosoma vespertilionis developed spheroid clusters as compared to rather long , sausage-shaped ( sometimes branched ) clusters formed by trypanosoma dionisii .
the former species attained a greater population density ( approximately 6 x 10 ( 7 ) organisms/ml ) than the latter ( approximately 2 x 10 ( 7 ) organisms/ml ) .
greater numbers of epimastigotes , some in active binary divisions , were observed during the logarithmic phase of growth , and morphologic changes occurred during cultivation which correlated with increased acidity and a depletion of glucose .
maximum numbers of trypomastigote forms were found during the stationary and early death phases .
most of the forms observed after 20 days were sphaeromastigotes .
glucose concentrations decreased to 0 m in t. vespertilionis and to 4.4 x 10 ( -5 ) m in t. dionisii cultures during the stationary and death phases .
by the 12th day of incubation cultures of t. vespertilionis were more acid ( ph 5.5 ) than those of t. dionisii vespertilionis and t. dionisii contained common and specific antigens .
at least 2-3 common antigens were detected in extracts reacted against heterologous antisera .
specific antigens were observed as nonidentical lines formed by extracts reacted against homologous and heterologous antisera and with antisera absorbed with heterologous antigens .
at least 2 specific antigens were evident in extracts of t. vespertilionis and 1 in extracts of t. dionisii .
the use of psychotropic drugs in general practice .
a report of a year's survey .
all the psychotropic tablets prescribed by a general practitioner in one year are itemised .
the patients who received them are separated into diagnostic groups and their treatment is analysed by the number of attendances , prescriptions , and duration of therapy .
hospital referrals and overdoses over a longer period are recorded .
my policy in psychiatric conditions is indicated .
n-isopropyl derivatives of dopamine and 5,6-dihydroxy-2-aminotetralin .
secondary and tertiary amino homologs of the title compounds have been prepared , bearing an n-isopropyl group .
in peripheral evaluation , certain members of the series exhibited beta-adrenergic agonist effects of lower activity than isoproterenol .
n-methyl-n-isopropyl-5,6-dihydroxytetralin exhibited marked properties consistent with its being an alpha agonist , and it is concluded that introduction of considerable bulk about the nitrogen of a catecholamine does not a priori destroy alpha-agonist effects .
the compounds qualitatively paralleled the effects of dopamine in assays based upon direct intrastriatal administration in rats , although they were less potent than dopamine .
relation between diel activity and respiration in armigeres subalbatus ( coquillett ) ( diptera : culicidae ) .
educational programs for team delivery .
interdisciplinary education of health associates : the johns hopkins experience .
the regional workshops on primary care .
current issues in primary care education : review and commentary .
new health practitioner education : problems and issues .
the training of new health manpower .
two training programs .
medex : the education-development interface .
characteristics of physician's assistant programs .
phospholipases .
iii .
effects of ionic surfactants on the phospholipase-catalyzed hydrolysis of unsonicated egg lecithin liposomes .
apparent values of km and vmax have been measured for catalysis of hydrolysis of unsonicated egg lecithin liposomes , activated through addition of 0.4 m n-hexanol , by phospholipases a2 from bee and snake venoms and by phospholipase c from clostridium welchii as a function of the concentration of three surfactants : hexadecylamine , hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide , and dihexadecyl phosphate .
for all three enzymes , values of km and vmax show little or no dependence on the concentration of these ionic surfactants , demonstrating that the liposomal surface charge is not a crucial factor in determining susceptibility to phospholipase-catalyzed hydrolysis .
negative potential level in the outer layer of the toad skin .
the isolated skin of the toad bufo marinus ictericus when impaled from the outer surface by glass microelectrodes filled with 3 m kcl shows a voltage profile which is a continuous function of the depth of impalement .
the superficial intraepithelial potential difference measured with reference to the external solution ( pdi ) is negative with nacl-ringer's solution on both sides of the skin , displaying a minimum of -26.7+/-3.6 mv at 6+/-2 mum .
null value is obtained at 19+/-3 mum , with positive values for deeper impalements .
indications of cell impalements ( abrupt voltage and resistance jumps ) were frequently observed at sites deeper than 25 mum from the outer surface .
measurements of the electrical resistance between the microelectrode and the external solution , made with single- and double-barreled microelectrodes , showed great discrepancies , which may be attributed to distinct pathways of different resistances in the stratum corneum .
pdi measured at a depth of 5 mum was a logarithmic function of na2so4 or k2so4 concentration in the external solution , increasing in negativity with a reduction in concentration .
substitution of na by k in the external solution had only minor effects on pdi .
acidification of the external solution from ph 9 is accompanied by a reduction in the negative value of pdi .
at ph 3 pdi was positive .
pdi was interpreted as a diffusion potential at the tip of the microelectrode due to kcl diffusion from the electrode into the matrix of the stratum corneum .
differences in k and cl mobilities , responsible for the origin of pdi , were attributed to fixed charges in the matrix of the stratum corneum , with density and polarity determined by their degree of proponation , controlled by the hydrogen ion concentration of the external solution .
skin potential , short-circuit current and their relationship to pdi were discussed .
the avian erythrocyte : a study of fixation for electron microscopy .
the quality of ultrastructural preservation of the avian erythrocyte achieved using various fixation techniques is evaluated .
different combinations of initial fixatives , buffers and post-fixation procedures were tested as well as variations in fixative osmolarity , ph and temperature .
of the commonly used initial fixatives ( glutaraldehyde , acrolein and formaldehyde ) , 2 % glutaraldehyde , alone in a slightly hypertonic buffer containing divalent ions , produced optimum erythrocyte preservation .
the osmolarity was balanced using a non-electrolyte such as a sucrose .
the addition of 12 % hexylene glycol to the buffer solutions also improves erythrocyte preservation , as evidenced by the increased stability of the marginal microtubules , microfilaments and proteinaceous material .
the use of spurr low-viscosity epoxy resin enables the cells to be collected using low gravitational centrifugation .
gelation of sickle hemoglobin .
iii .
nitrosyl hemoglobin .
interactions between cysteine residues as probes of protein conformation : the disulphide bond between cys-14 and cys-38 of the pancreatic trypsin inhibitor .
a study of the histidine residues of human carbonic anhydrase c using 270 mhz proton magnetic resonance .
the refined crystal structure of bovine beta-trypsin at 1.8 a resolution .
ii .
crystallographic refinement , calcium binding site , benzamidine binding site and active site at ph 7.0 .
electrostatic side chain complementarity in collagen fibrils .
hemoglobin solution and the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve .
1 ) a study was carried out to determine the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve of stroma-free hemoglobin solution and factors which influence it , ( ph ; 2,3 dpg ) .
2 ) to simulate acute volume replacement , dilution experiments , in vitro , were performed employing both hemoglobin solution and ringer's lactate in whole blood .
3 ) it was determined that stroma-free hemoglobin solution has a left-shifted oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve which responds to ph change but not to the addition of 2,3 dpg .
4 ) the dilutional effect of hemoglobin solution when mixed with whole blood in volumes up to 50 % was to left-shift the oxyhemoglobin curve , unlike the effect of ringer's lactate ( no change ) .
5 ) this may have importance in the hemodynamic compensatory response to acute normovolemic anemia .
effect of antihistamine-antiserotonin and ganglionic blocking agents upon increased capillary permeability following burn trauma .
tiny ( 0.2 % tbs ) , partial thickness , non-contact radiant heat burns in guinea pigs resulted , within 3 hours , in significant edema formation and protein leakage at the site of the injury .
areas of skin distant to the burn also showed an increase in water content but no protein leakage .
pretreatment of the animals with either chlorisondamine hydrochloride or a mixture of methysergide and chlorpheniramine significantly decreased postburn edema formation and protein leakage .
liquid emulsion autoradiography revealed that leakage of protein occurs primarily in the areas of skin adjacent to the panniculus carnosus .
the studies suggest that : the increase in vascular permeability that occurs as a consequence of burn injuries is humorally mediated ; albumin leakage is limited to the injured tissues ; and histamine , serotonin , and presumably catecholamines play significant roles in the development of this phenomenon .
bacteriophage t4 baseplate components .
ii .
binding and location of bacteriophage-induced dihydrofolate reductase .
the location of t4d phage-induced dihydrofolate reductase ( dfr ) has been determined in intact and incomplete phage particles .
it has been found that phage mutants inducing a temperature-sensitive dfr ( dfrts ) procude heat-labile phage particles .
the structural dfr produced by these ts mutants was shown to assume different configurations depending on the temperature at which the phage is assembled .
morphogenesis of incomplete phage particles lacking the gene 11 protein on their baseplates was found to be inhibited by reagents binding to dfr , such as antibodies to dfr .
further , cofactor molecules for dfr , such as reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide , also inhibited the step in morphogenesis involving the addition of gene 11 product .
on the other hand , inhibitors of dfr , such as adenosine dephosphoribose , stimulated the addition of the gene 11 protein .
it has been concluded that the phage-induced dfr is a baseplate component which is partially covered by the gene 11 protein .
the properties of phage particles produced after infection of the nonpermissive host with the one known t4d mutant containing a nonsense mutation in its dfr gene suggested that these progeny particles contained a partial polypeptide , which was large enough to serve as a structural element .
uukuniemi virus contains an rna polymerase .
an rna-dependent rna polymerase activity has been found associated with uukuniemi virions .
the enzyme activity is expressed only after disrupting the virions with the nonionic detergent triton x-100 and is absolutely dependent on mn2+ , whereas mg2+ is not required , a finding that distinguishes this polymerase from those of other enveloped minus-strand rna viruses .
within the range ph 7.2 to 8.5 no distinct optimum was found .
the optimum temperature was between 37 and 40 c .
the reaction was not inhibited by actinomycin d , rifampin , or dnase , whereas rnase was completely inhibitory .
the partially rnase-resistant product consisted of rather small-sized rna , which contained sequences complementary to uukuniemi virus rna as shown by hybridization to the template l , m , and s rna species of uukuniemi virus .
wolffian duct cyst .
radiographic examination of mandibular lesions in barren-ground caribou .
dental anomalies were observed in 43 of 1,226 barren-ground caribou ( rangifer tarandus groenlandicus ) taken between 1966 and 1968 .
in five of these 43 animals , the mandibles had deformities which radiography showed to be the result of dental abscesses in four cases and probably of a trauma in the other .
the absence of actinomycotic lesions of the jaw bones of these 1,226 animals , and of more than 500 examined previously , indicates that `` lumpy jaw '' is rare in barren-ground caribou .
the authors suggest the use of radiography to determine the nature of bone growth on skeletal remains , in the absence of soft tissues for examination for actinomyces , either microscopically or by cultural methods .
statistical data on allied medical education .
bacteriologic diagnosis of acute pneumonia .
comparison of sputum , transtracheal aspirates , and lung aspirates .
periarteritis nodosa in the kidney .
recovery following immunosuppressive therapy .
[ contractile function of the heart. adrenergic beta receptor blockaders and cardiac function ] .
[ studies of the effects of aircraft noise causing mental fatigue during some intellectual performance ( author's transl ) ] .
experimental diarrhea in cynomolgus monkeys by oral administration with clostridium perfringens type a viable cells or enterotoxin .
purified c. perfringens type a enterotoxin fed orally in an amount of 5 mg caused both vomiting and diarrhea in the monkey only when the gastric juice had been neutralized .
exposure of enterotoxin to ph 4.0 or below rapidly destroyed the activity .
all three monkeys receiving sodium bicarbonate and 2.4 x 10 ( 10 ) viable cells grown in ds medium developed diarrhea , and only one of them vomited once .
the diarrhea lasted for 13 , 18 and 19 hr .
the symptoms were similar to those reported in human cases of c. perfringens food poisoning .
these results have verified the general notion that c. perfringens food poisoning should be categorized as a true `` intravital intoxication '' .
the reversed passive hemagglutination test detected enterotoxin directly in most fecal samples .
this method may be applicable for diagnosis of human cases of c. perfringens food poisoning .
neither enterotoxin nor anti-enterotoxin was detected in serum samples taken from any monkey up to 21 days after the challenge .
we are tempted to conclude , therefore , that no significant amount of c. perfringens enterotoxin is absorbed from the intestine .
[ impression of the 1975 general meeting of the japan nursing association. fulfilment and some disappointment ] .
[ impression of the 1975 general meeting of the japan association. heated discussion in the general meeting and bureaucratic attitude in the public health section ] .
[ impression of the 1975 general meeting of the japan nursing association. disappointing attitude of the assembly toward the nursing system ] .
[ impression on the 1975 general meeting of the japan nursing association. need for more realistic attitude toward nursing ] .
[ impression of the 1975 general meeting of the japan nursing association. lack of positive approaches in the public health section ] .
[ a study on cryptorchidism. report 1. changes in plasma levels of fsh , lh and testosterone in cryptorchidism with loading of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone ( author's transl ) ] .
postnatal development of testicular capillaries and the effect of experimental cryptorchid on capillaries in rats .
[ federation of salaried employees ' meeting and the stand taken by the federation of midwives ] .
[ effect of peripheral counterpulsation on the body of an animal with intact heart ] .
the effect of lasting peripheral counterpulsation upon the haemodynamics and the main biochemical factors of the blood was studied in 14 dogs with intact hearts .
in cases of significant tachycardia counterpulsation in a 1:2 regimen results in only a partial reduction of the resistance to the cardiac output .
this does not always permit to prevent the formation of the phenomenon of an elevated myocardial contractility .
the haemodynamic conditions are most optimal in a 1:1 regimen of counterpulsation .
slowing down of the cardiac rhythm was achieved by means of hypothermia .
[ regulation of interrelation between pulmonary ventilation and circulation ] .
in acute experiments on 92 cats anesthetized with urethane and kept under controlled respiration the mechanism of tonic activity of the pulmonary vessels was studied in the presence of a decreased partial pressure of oxygen in the alveoli .
the tonicity of the pulmonary vessels was recorded during autoperfusion of the vessels of the posterior lobe of the left lung by means of a perfusion pump .
simultaneously , the pressure in the common carotid artery was recorded and the oxygen saturation of the blood was measured .
pharmacological analysis was used for the study of the mechanism of the pressor reaction of the pulmonary vessels under hypoxic hypoxy , and it demonstrated that the pression of the pulmonary vessels that develops under alveolar hypoxy is less distinct under the effect of the ganglioblocking agent benzo-hexonium , as well as the myotropic agents papaverine and chloracizine .
the above reaction was significantly inhibited by the blocking agents of the d- and m-serotonin-reactive structures -- dihydroergothamine , morphine and novocain , and it was completely lacking against the background of the action of izadrine and dimedrol -- blocking agents of serotonin- and histamine-reactive structures .
it can be supposed that the d- and m-serotonin-reactive , and probably also the histamine-reactive structures participate in the regulation of the interrelationship of ventilation and pulmonary circulation .
dilution acidosis and contraction alkalosis : review of a concept .
multiple cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases in rat kidney .
using deae-cellulose chromatography and agarose gel filtration we have partially purified a low km cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( amp ) phosphodiesterase from the 100,000 x g supernatant of rat kidneys .
the characteristics of this enzyme included a km of approximately 4 mum a ph optimum of around 8.0 and a requirement for magnesium .
this preparation should be suitable for investigation of possible effects of hormones , drugs and cellular constituents on the cyclic amp pathway through any direct effects on the low km enzyme .
we have also demonstrated a nonspecific , high km cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase and possibly a specific cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( gmp ) phosphodiesterase in the soluble fraction from rat kidneys .
effect on aging on plasma renin and aldosterone in normal man .
the influence of aging on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system was evaluated by comparing young ( 20 to 30 yr ) with elderly ( 62 to 70 yr ) healthy subjects .
despite comparable body sodium-fluid balance in the two age groups , serum renin concentration , plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentrations were lower in the elderly .
the age-related decreases in circulating renin and aldosterone concentrations were slight while subjects were supine and receiving normal sodium intake ; when upright and during sodium depletion , they were more pronounced .
inverse renin-blood pressure interrelations were noted during two of four study conditions involving normal sodium intake or mild sodium depletion ( r = -- 0.44 and -- 0.47 , respectively ) , but not during progressive sodium depletion .
plasma renin levels were decreased in the elderly regardless of the presence or absence of an inverse relationship with blood pressure .
aldosterone and cortisol responses to corticotropin infusion were unaltered in the elderly .
it is concluded that aging may cause a decrease in circulating renin , with parallel lowering of plasma aldosterone concentrations .
modification of angiotensin-mediated tubulo-glomerular feedback by extracellular volume .
[ immune mechanisms in uremia ] .
there is both clinical and experimental evidence that cellular and humoral immunity are suppressed in patients with renal insufficiency : observations in organ transplantation and in vitro stimulation of lymphocytes from uraemic patients , investigations of acute and late hypersensitivity reactions , the immune response after active immunization as well as changes of immunoglobulins and lymphatic organs in uraemia are discussed in the paper .
the underlying mechanisms are complex and not yet fully understood .
lymphopenia , atrophy of the thymus gland , toxic serum factors , induction of enhancing mechanisms by certain serum fractions and metabolic defects of lymphocytes -- all were shown to be involved or at least considered to be .
at present , however , it is impossible to define their rank of importance and the exact place they may occupy in the genesis of this type of `` natural immunosuppression '' .
improvement of renin determination in human plasma using a commonly available renin standard in a radioimmunological method .
unlabelled : a new method for the measurement of renin in human plasma is described .
the method is based on the introduction of the internationally available renin standard of the medical research council ( mrc ) london , as a calibration system .
thus , some principal disadvantages of methods expressing results in renin reaction velocity ( angiotensin generation rate ) only are avoided .
both renins , unknown and standard , react with a sheep substrate preparation and are handled identically throughout the whole procedure including the angiotensin i radioimmunoassay ( ria ) .
the plasma renin concentration ( prc ) is given in 10 ( -6 ) mrc-renin units ( mum/ml ) .
results : the renin standard is free of angiotensin , angiotensinases , and angiotensinogen ; it is stable on storage .
identical enzyme kinetics are shown for both renins .
an interference between endogenous and exogenous substrate could be avoided .
the potentially harmful influences of proteins from the enzyme incubation mixture of the ria dose response curve are shown .
the use of an angiotensin i calibration system could be omitted .
using a standard renin dilution from 250-0.9 muu/ml also the full biological range is covered .
when giving an unrestricted diet the preliminary normal values of prc are 21.9 +/- 12.6 muu/ml in recumbent and 40.1 +/- 19.8 muu/ml in upright position ( n = 16 , x +/- s , age 20-35 years ) .
earlier findings of age-dependency of prc were confirmed .
[ validity of ph measurements by means of micro ph combination electrodes in blood and other biological fluids ( author's transl ) ] .
ph measurements in blood or in media containing either proteins or polypeptides and performed by means of micro ph combination electrodes type n 58 ( schott & gen. , mainz ) yield in a systematic error according to the regression line y = 1.135 chi - 0.842 , in the range between ph 5.3 and 8.3 .
this deviation from the real ph value is independent of the protein concentration and amounts to 0.1-0.2 ph units in the physiological range .
the error does not occur if the ph measurements are performed in media which are free of proteins and polypeptides , respectively .
if the electrolyte solution within the reference electrode is replaced ( nacl solution instead of kcl solution ) the error is distinctly reduced .
for this reason , this deviation should be caused by the variation of the diffusion potential across the platinum junctions .
[ glutathione ( author's transl ) ] .
glutathione plays an important role in biology and medicine .
most cells of plants and animals contain high concentrations of reduced glutathione and a much smaller amount of oxidised glutathione .
gsh is important for several metabolic functions of live cells , e.g. the protection of oxidative stress by peroxides , mediation of enzyme reactions , regulation of metabolic events , transport of amino acids across cell membranes via the gamma-glutamyl cycle , elimination of foreign compounds by gsh-conjugation , release of neurotransmitter substances .
irreversible perturbations of the glutathione metabolism may be the reason for severe clinical symptoms of hemolytic anemia or , perhaps , of central nervous disease .
medex south carolina : a progress report .
the effects of drinking on offspring : an historical survey of the american and british literature .
current research on the effects on offspring of drinking during pregnancy has revived interest in an extremely old topic .
observations made during england's gin epidemic ( 1720-1750 ) were followed by warnings of 19th-century medical writers that parental drinking could damage the fetus .
many concurring studies were reported in the medical literature from 1865 to 1920 .
research interest declined during prohibition , and authorities later discounted the previous work .
recently a relationship between maternal drinking and abnormal morphogenesis has been again described .
problems of epidemiology in alcohol problems .
prevalence of alcoholism among ward patients in a veterans administration hospital .
extracellular volume expansion after ethanol in dogs .
hyperexcitability in the neural substrate of emotional behavior in cats after alcohol withdrawal .
evidence of a rapid development of alcohol dependence .
substantial and prolonged withdrawal hyperexcitability in the neural substrate for affective defense was revealed by behavioral and electrophysiological measures in cats exposed to moderate to heavy doses of alcohol for periods ranging from 6 to 72 hours .
the data are interpreted as indicating a rapid development of physical dependence on alcohol in this portion of the central nervous system .
interactions of age , sex and long-term alcohol intake in selectively bred strains of rats .
the alcohol consumption by five genotypes of rats was studied in two experiments .
alcohol intake was age-dependent in rats bred for high emotional reactivity and avoidance conditionability .
differences in consumption by sex appeared to be primarily due to differences in body weight .
the mediating role of emotions in alcohol use .
alcoholism and marriage : the argument against specialism .
symptoms of alcoholism in women : a preliminary survey of a.a. members .
sex-role adjustment and drinking disposition of women college students .
prearrest behavior of persons convicted of driving while intoxicated .
daily alcohol consumption patterns in boston : some findings and a partial test of the tuesday hypothesis .
treatment of alcoholic methadone-maintenance patients with disulfiram .
kinetic analysis of active membrane transport systems : equations for net velocity and isotope exchange .
quantitative aspects of regulation of cellular cyclic amp levels .
ii .
kinectics of drug action in a model cyclic amp generating system .
a hypothesis for the pathway of the thermally-induced unfolding of bovine pancreatic ribonuclease .
regional study of acid hydrolases and lysosomal membrane properties in the normal human brain at various ages .
acid hydrolases and lysosomal membrane properties were studied at various ages in the normal human brain .
in csf and four brain regions , the inferior olive , the cerebellar cortex , the caudate nucleus and the frontal cortex were thus beta-galactosidase , beta-glucosidase , alpha-mannosidase , hexosaminidase and acid phosphatase biochemically quantitated at ages varying between 2 and 89 years of age .
also the membrane latency for acid phosphatase was studied in these regions .
no major regional quantitative differences were found with regard to the enzymes studied .
their kinetic properties were also defined .
there appeared to exist a regional and intra-areal variation in lysosomal membrane permeability .
there was , however , no age related increase in total enzyme contents .
the possibility significance of these findings are discussed with reference to the aging process .
the late effects of selected immunosuppressants on immunocompetence , disease incidence , and mean life-span .
ii .
cell-mediated immune activity .
the late effects of various immunosuppressive insults on cell-mediated immunity in mice were studied in an attempt to assess the role of immune surveillance in the aging process .
results were obtained using susceptibility to allogeneic tumor cell challenge , graft-versus-host reaction ( gvhr ) , blastogenic response to pha , a thymus derived t cell-specific plant mitogen , and cytolytic activity against allogeneic tumor cells as measures of immunologic activity .
in vivo studies late in life show that resistance to allogeneic tumor cells is significantly decreased in thymectomized mice , whereas those treated with cortisone , cyclophosphamide and sublethal x-ray remain unchanged .
spleen cells from only the thymectomized and the sublethally irradiated mice show reduced activity in the gvhr .
no difference is seen in the activity of bone marrow cells .
results consistent with these findings were obtained in in vitro studies .
thus spleen cells from thymectomized or sublethally irradiated mice show decreased activity is response to pha , whereas no change is seen in spleen cells from other treated groups .
hence , surgical and physical insults are more likely to induce long-lasting immunosuppression in those immunocompetent tissues whose activity normally diminishes with advancing age .
furthermore , the degree of immunosuppression seen in this study is not of the order of magnitude that one could reasonably predict a significant decrease in mean life-span .
development of a miniature ph glass electrode with field-effect-transistor amplifier for biomedical applications .
development of a minature pco2 electrode for biomedical applications .
[ treatment of ischemic wounds in the elderly by covering with pigskin heterografts ] .
calcium activation of brain tryptophan hydroxylase .
acute and chronic effects of nicotine on synthesis and storage of catecholamines in the rat adrenal medulla .
subcellular localization of guanylate cyclase .
further studies on the pharmacology of a false cholinergic transmitter , ( 2-hydroxyethyl ) methyldiethylammonium ( diethylcholine ) .
catechol-o-methyltransferase from rat liver : two forms having different meta : para methylation ratios .
properties of solubilized prostaglandin synthetase from sheep vesicular glands .
adenosine as a putative transmitter in the cerebral cortex .
studies with potentiators and antagonists .
kinetic characterization of rat serum dopamine-beta-hydroxylase using a simplified radioenzymatic assay .
the serotonergic system in the brain and its possible functional connections with other aminergic systems .
proctolin : a peptide transmitter candidate in insects .
structure of the pentapeptide proctolin , a proposed neurotransmitter in insects .
on the substrate specificity of cathepsins b1 and b2 including a new fluorogenic substrate for cathepsin b1 .
crassin acetate , the principal antineoplastic agent in four gorgonians of the pseudoplexaura genus .
crassin acetate , a lactonic cembrane diterpene , has been shown to be the principal antineoplastic agent present in the marine invertebrates ( gorgonians ) pseudoplexaura porosa , p. flagellosa , p. wagenaari and p. crucis .
ecological amplitudes of herbs , spices , and medicinal plants .
lipoxygenase isozymes of peanut .
lipoxygenase was isolated and partially purified from peanut seed by ammonium sulfate precipitation , gel filtration , and ion exchange column chromatography .
three isozymes of lipoxygenase were identified .
two had ph optima of 6.2 , and the other an optimum of 8.3 .
molecular weight of each isozyme was 7.3 x 10 ( 4 ) , as determined by gel filtration .
the alkaline optimum isozyme was not inhibited by nacn and was inhibited by cacl2 except at very low concentrations .
the acid optimum isozymes were inhibited by nacn and were stimulated by cacl2 concentrations up to ca. 0.7 mm .
[ foci of lymphocyte-like cells in the bone marrow of irradiated mice ] .
asthma : the promise of drug therapy .
[ coronary heart disease and its differential treatment ] .
[ the value of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidases in the diagnosis of liver diseases ] .
[ 6 years of the international union of societies of immunology. presidential report ( brighton 1974 ) ] .
the action of uncouplers on lipid bilayer membranes .
cation permeation mechanisms and cation selectivity in `` tight junctions '' of gallbladder epithelium .
growth and handling of yeasts .
methods for avoiding proteolytic artefacts in studies of enzymes and other proteins from yeasts .
induction of haploid glycoprotein mating factors in diploid yeasts .
induction , selection , and experimental uses of temperature-sensitive and other conditional mutants of yeast .
recycling doctors .
[ pulmonary involvement in collagen diseases ] .
[ computer experience and further developments in the respiratory function laboratory ( author's transl ) ] .
reported is on satisfactory results obtained with a small-size computer consisting of punching and scanning device , as well as plain writing machine in the respiratory function laboratory .
developed in on- as well as off-line processing by an own technical staff , a diagnostic and teaching program was established for all respiratory function routine methods with the advantages of a large number of cases examined , elimination of sources of error , considerable supply of data and information , automatic documentation and filing , plain writing , interpretation and evaluation of findings .
in continuation of such works also the blood gas analysis has been included .
these values as the total of disturbances of the pathophysiological acid-base status are considered and interpreted .
clinical correction is forced in this man-machine dialogue by automatic stops of the whole machinery before going on .
subsequently and in addition are computer alveolar-arterial oxygen pressure gradient , venous shunt and oxygen saturation and expressed utilizing the capacity of the small-size computer .
further developments in the respiratory function diagnostic- and teaching program for small-size computers -- not too expensive in the building block principle - are intended .
less medicine than we think ?
the challenge of hew .
manpower , medicine and money .
alaska .
edp .
alternatives : two case histories .
choosing a computer system .
planning for his .
mental health reform fails .
evaluate job to set compensation .
setting depreciation schedules .
choosing an understudy .
denial of staff privileges upheld .
chemical transmitter systems in the brain .
regional cerebral circulation in man and its regulation .
phosphate transport in rat liver mitochondria .
kinetics , inhibitor sensitivity , energy requirements , and labeled components .
experiments were carried out to define the kinetic parameters of the major phosphate transport processes of rat liver mitochondria , and to obtain information about the molecular properties of these systems .
l-tyrosine : 2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase induction by hydrocortisone in the thymus of the white rat .
hydrocortisone hemisuccinate within 4 hours after in vivo administration produced an increase in precursor incoporation into rat thymus rna and proteins in the whole animal .
from these results , together with information obtained from measurements of the tyrosine aminotransferase activity and the action of mitomycin c administered one hour before the injection of hydrocortisone , it can be concluded that the increase in tissue level of the enzyme , consequent to hydrocortisone treatment , results from an increased rate of biosynthesis of the enzyme , which participates in the catabolic processes of proteins in glucocorticoid sensitive thymus cells .
identification of the 30 s protein adjacent to peptidyl transferase catalytic center of escherichia coli ribosomes .
iodoacetylphenylalanyl-trnaphe was used as an affinity label to localize the ribosomal components involved in the peptidyl transferase catalytic center of escherichia coli ribosomes .
when labeling was carried out at ph 5.0 , the affinity label could specifically label the ribosomal components which comprise the catalytic center .
analysis of ribosomal proteins which had reacted with the affinity label revealed that a 30 s subunit protein , s 20 , was located at or near to the ribosomal binding site of the 3'-terminus of aminoacyl- or peptidyl-trna .
case records of the massachusetts general hospital .
weekly clinicopathological exercises .
case 1-1976 .
letter : impact of physicians ' assistants .
letter : dyskinesia associated with chronic antihistamine use .
letter : grams of antipsychotics ?
the value of a histamine h2-receptor antagonist in the management of patients with the zollinger-ellison syndrome .
inhibition of acid secretion by an h2-receptor antagonist ( metiamide ) was assessed in three patients with the zollinger-ellison syndrome .
metiamide ( 200 or 300 mg ) inhibited acid secretion transiently ( 2 1/2 hours ) by 85 to 100 per cent in all patients .
although anticholinergic drugs alone inhibited acid secretion by only 0 to 35 per cent in these patients , the combination of metiamide and anticholinergic markedly prolonged the inhibitory effect of metiamide .
total gastrectomy was refused by one patient , and was impossible in another ; both were treated with metiamide and anticholinergic for five and 10 months .
a third patient was treated with metiamide and anticholinergic for three weeks in preparation for total gastrectomy .
ulcer pain and diarrhea disappeared , and each gained weight .
h2-receptor antagonists may be useful in the treatment of some patients with the zollinger-ellison syndrome .
shattuck lecture -- strengths and weaknesses of the committee approach .
an analysis of past and present recommended dietary allowances for protein in health and disease ( second of two parts ) .
selective release of newly synthesised and newly captured gaba from synaptosomes by potassium depolarisation .
effect of minor tranquillisers on hippocampal theta rhythm mimicked by depletion of forebrain noradrenaline .
direct identification and characterisation of beta-adrenergic receptors in rat brain .
prolonged activation of tyrosine hydroxylase in noradrenergic neurones of rat brain by cholinergic stimulation .
letter : cysteine and survival of transplanted thymoma .
effect of denervation and local damage on extrajunctional l-glutamate receptors in locust muscle .
tentative classification of nad ( p ) -linked dehydrogenases in regard to their stereochemistry of hydrogen transfer to the coenzyme .
induction of tyrosine aminotransferase by insulin not mediated by cyclic gmp .
histamine receptors in the vasculature of the rabbit ear .
histamine has a dual action on the isolated perfused ear preparation of the rabbit .
the amine induced a dose-dependent rise in perfusion pressure when the preparation was perfused with krebs ' solution .
this pressor response was reversed to a depressor effect when meypramine was added to the perfusion fluid .
this depressor effect of the amine was also dose-related .
metiamide competitively inhibited the depressor effect of histamine .
prior treatment of the ear vessels with metiamide alone caused an increase in histamine-induced perfusion pressure .
from these results it was concluded that the predominant pressor effect of histamine on the vascular bed of the rabbit ear is mediated through the h1-receptors and the depressor effect of the amine through histamine h2-receptors .
relative pre- and postsynaptic potencies of alpha-adrenoceptor agonists in the rabbit pulmonary artery .
the rabbit pulmonary artery contains postsynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors which meidate smooth muscle contraction ; its noradrenergic nerves contain presynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors which mediate inhibition of the release of the transmitter evoked by nerve impulses .
dose-response curves for the pre- and postsynaptic effects of eight alpha-receptor agonists were determined on superfused strips of the artery in the presence of cocaine , corticosterone and propranolo .
1. according to the concentrations which caused 20 % of the maximal contraction ( ec20 post ) , the postsynaptic rank order of potency was : adrenaline greater than noradrenaline greater than oxymetazoline greater than naphazoline greater than phenylephrine greater than tramazoline greater than alpha-methylnoradrenaline greater than methoxamine .
the pa2 values of phentolamine againstoxymethazoline , phenylephrine , alpha-methylnoradrenaline and methoxamine were 7.43 , 7.48 , 7.59 and 7.69 , respectively .
2. for the investigation of presynaptic effects , the arteries were preincubated with 3h-noradrenaline .
all agonists inhibited the overflow of tritium evoked by transmural sympathetic nerve stimulation .
according to the concentrations which reduced the stimulation-induced overflow by 20 % ( ec20 pre ) , the rank order of potency was : adrenaline greater than oxymetazoline greater than tramazoline greater than alpha-methylnoradrenaline greater than noradrenaline greater than naphazoline greater than phenylephrine greater than methoxamine .
10 ( -5 ) m phentolamine shifted the presynaptic dose-response curves for moradrenaline and oxymethazoline to the right .
3. the ratio ec20 pre/ec20 post was calculated for each agonist as an index of its relative post- and presynaptic potency .
according to the ratios , the agonists were arbitrarily classified into three groups .
group 1 ( ratio about 30 : preferentially postsynaptic agonists ) comprised methoxamine and phenylephrine ; group 2 ( ratio near 1 ; similar pre- and postsynaptic potencies ) comprised noradrenaline , adrenaline and naphazoline ; group 3 ( ratio below 0.2 ; preferentially presynaptic agonists ) comprised oxymetazoline , alpha-methylnoradrenaline and tramazoline ( as well as clonidine ) .
4. preferentially presynaptic and preferentially postsynaptic agonists had opposite effects on the basoconstrictor response to nerve stimulation .
methoxamine and phenylephrine either did not change or enhanced , but never reduced , the response .
in contrast , oxymetazoline , alpha-methylnoradrenaline and tramazoline at low concentrations selectively inhibited the response to stimulation at low frequency ( 0.25-2hz ) .
5. it is concluded that alpha-adrenoceptor agonists vary widely in their relative pre- and postsynaptic potencies , possibly because of structural differences between pre- and postsynaptic alpha-receptors .
pre- and postsynaptic components contribute to their overll postsynaptic effec in actively transmitting synapses .
the preferential activation of presynaptic alpha-receptors results in alpha-adrenergic inhibition of synaptic transmission .
investigation into some imidazoline compounds , with respect to peripheral alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation and depression of cardiovascular centers .
peripheral alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation was tested by means of hypertensive effects of the drugs following i.v. injection in spinal rats .
naphazoline ( np ) , oxymetazoline ( om ) , st 91-2- ( 2,6-diethylphenylimino ) -2-imidazolidine -- and st 1697 -- 2- ( 2-ethyl , 6-methylphenylimino ) -2-imidazolidine -- were 3 to 5 times more potent in tthis respect thatn clonidine ( clon ) whereas st 363 -- 2- ( 2,4-dichlorophenylimino ) -2-imidazolidine -- and xylazine ( xy ) exerted only approx. 1/20 the effect of that of clonidine .
sympathoinhibitory activity after i.v. injection was tested by the bradycardiac effect in vagotomized rats ; st 1697 , st 363 and xy were active , approx. 1/10-1/30 of clon , whereas np , om and st 91 were inactive .
however , following intracisternal ( i.ci. ) injection of cardiovascular depression , typical for clonidine : ( 1 ) in dogs with blocked beta-adrenoceptors , the drugs facilitated the vagally meditated cardiodepressor reflex in response to baroreceptor stimulation by i.v. injection of angiotensin ; ( 2 ) in dogs treated with atropine and in ( 3 ) vagotomized cats ( only np , om and st 363 ) a long lasting decrease in heart rate was observed .
some of the experiments were complicated by increases in blood pressure , due to the `` leakage '' of small amounts of the highly vasopressor active drugs , from the cisternal spaces into the peripheral circulation .
the majority of results indicated , that the central cardiovascular depressor effects of the tested drugs depend on their alpha-adrenoreceptor stimulating potency and on their ability to penetrate from cerebrospinal fluid or from the blood to cardiovascular centers .
relationships between the ability for penetration and the lipoid affinity are discussed .
the regulation of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase .
effects of gamma hydroxybutric acid and healperidol .
gamma-hydroxybutyric acid ( ghba ) in doses that increased the striatal dopamine ( da ) content of rat brain failed to increase the affinity of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase ( th ) for its pterdine cofactor or to change the sensitivity of the enzyme to the inhibition by da .
haloperidol ( 1 mg/kg ) decreased the apparent km of striatal th for the pteridine cofactor .
however , when ghba was injected before haloperidol it prevented the decrease in the apparent kn of th , in a dose related manner .
in vitro ghba ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) neither changed the stimulation of the striatal adenylyl cyclase by da nor its inhibition by haloperidol .
these results suggest that in striatal dopaminergic terminals the kn of th for the pteridine cofactor is regulated by an molecuular mechanism which requires that the impulse flow in the da neurons is unimpaired .
host-tumor relationship xxxiii .
inhibitor of hyaluronidase in blood serum of cancer patients .
inhibiting activity of blood serum was determined from the decrease of n-acetyl-hexosamine end groups of hyaluronic acid products released by testicular hyaluronidase .
maximum inhibition was observed within the region of ph from 6.5 to 6.8 .
correlation between the serum concentration and its inhibiting effect on hyaluronidase was found within the range of the final dilution of serum ( in the reaction mixture ) from 9 to 45 x .
blood sera of cancer patients showed statistically significant increase of hyaluronidase inhibitor as compared with that of health people .
influence of peritoneal dialysis on factors affecting oxygen transport .
to determine the effect of changing concentrations of uremic metabolites on factors affecting oxygen transport , without the effects of extracorporeal blood pumping , we studied five patients before , during and after peritoneal dialysis .
significant decreases in serum urea , creatinine and phosphate and increase in serum bicarbonate were not associated with changes in p50 , a reflection of hemoglobin-oxygen affinity .
high erythrocyte 2,3-dpg concentrations decreased only slightly .
arterial po2 increased slightly as negative fluid balance was achieved .
the slight changes in oxygen transport parameters with dialysis suggest an interplay of compensatory factors and do not warrant modifying dialysis to limit the correction on acidosis or hyperphosphatemia .
effects on hemoglobin and po2 resulting from fluid loss can be the dominant influence of peritoneal dialysis on tissue oxygenation .
some effects of ammonium salts on renal histology and function in the dog .
nh4cl was infused into the left renal artery of anesthetized dogs at 50-125 mum/kg/min for up to 110 min .
renal blood flow declined early then increased to supra-control levels during infusion .
kidneys perfused at 125 mum/kg/min for 90 min showed patchy to confluent mixtures of cortical necrosis and tubular necrosis .
experimental kidneys invariably showed lower urine osmolality than contralateral controls 48 h after perfusion .
kidneys with necrosis showed depressed creatinine clearance as well .
renal artery infusion of nh4 acetate or intravenous infusion of nahco3 during arterial infusion of nh4cl prevented significant acidosis and caused minimal histological changes , but depression of urine osmolality was not prevented .
it is concluded that renal ammonium concentrations up to 40 mum/liter for 90 min does not cause tubular necrosis but does impair urine concentration .
severe tissue damage followed renal exposure to high ammonium concentrations in the presence of metabolic or renal acidosis .
papillary necrosis associated with calyceal arteritis .
the renal papilla has a double blood supply - from both the vasa recta and the calyceal arteries .
the importance of the latter supply is not established .
a case of polyarteritis associated with papillary necrosis is reported , in which the calyceal vessels , supplying the area , show acute necrotizing arteritis and occlusion .
the pathophysiological and clinical implications are discussed .
fasting uric acid and phosphate in urine and plasma of renal calcium-stone formers .
clearance experiments in calcium-stone patients ( n = 60 ) and controls ( n = 60 ) demonstrated significantly higher urinary uric acid ( ua ) in younger ( less 40 years ) stone patients than controls ( median : 480 vs. 351 mug/min ) but not in older ( greater than 40 years ) patients .
serum ua and urinary oxypurines were comparable in health and stone disease .
conversely urinary phosphate was significantly lower in younger patients than matched controls ( males : 224 vs. 304 mug ) and presumably is responsible for the more alkaline ph .
it is suggested that calcium-stone formation in humans is represented by two different populations .
effects of varying dialysate calcium concentrations on the plasma calcium fractions in patients on dialysis .
the plasma-ionized calcium levels decreased during haemodialysis when a dialysate calcium concentration of 5 mg/100 ml was used .
when dialysis was performed with a bath calcium concentration of 7.5 mg/100 ml , there was a significant increase in the plasm-ionized calcium levels in the post-dialysis period .
these results are discussed in relation of the optimal dialysate calcium concentrations and development of dialytic bone disease .
[ pharmacological treatment of arterial hypertension ] .
a study of the central effects of sympathomimetic drugs : eeg and behavioural investigations on clonidine and naphazoline .
influence of desmethylimipramine on some neurochemical alterations during experimental hypothyroidism .
further studies on the ganglionic and smooth muscle stimulating effect of potassium on the peristaltic reflex of the guinea-pig isolated ileum .
lymphocyte physiology and function .
if you like variety , become an orthopedic surgeon's assistant .
'war games ' against cancer .
[ borderline between antiepileptic and psychopharmacological drugs ( author's transl ) ] .
from the chemical and pharmalogical point of view it is impossible to separate strictly between antiepileptic and psychopharmalogical drugs .
inspite of that and several clinical overlappings it is possible and helpful finding differences between the two groups of drugs .
basing on the indication we try to demonstrate the use of these drug-groups .
1. antiepileptic drugs in behaviour disorders .
a. in spite of various publications we recommend carefullness and restriction .
b. only in case of behaviour disorders due to epileptic origin antiepileptic therapy is indicated .
2. psychopharmalogical drugs in epilepsies a .
the frequency of seizures may be reduced b .
psychical disorders connected with seizures may be influnced .
[ intoxication due to analeptics in 8 newborn infants ] .
identification , purification and properties of clone-specific glycoprotein antigens constituting the surface coat of trypanosoma brucei .
soluble glycoproteins have been purified from a series of clones of trypanosoma brucei 427 .
each clone yielded a characteristic predominant glycoprotein which induced clone-specific immunity to trypanosome infection in mice .
these glycoproteins were shown by specific labelling and enzyme digestion of cells to be the major components of the trypanosome surface coat .
each glycoprotein consisted of a single polypeptide chain having an apparent molecular weight of 65 000 ( as measured by sds-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ) and containing around 600 amino acid and 20 monosaccharide residues .
preliminary structural studies indicated large changes in amino acid sequence dispersed over a considerable length of the polypeptide chain .
proteolytic activity was demonstrated in semi-purified trypanosome extracts , providing one reason for the heterogeneity sometimes observed in surface glycoprotein antigen preparations .
the determination of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase by reaction rate assay at 37 degrees c .
the determination of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase by a reaction rate assay using optimal reaction conditions at 37 degrees is described .
specific conditions and instrument settings are described for the lkb reaction rate analyser but the actual assay conditions are applicable to any similar reaction rate system .
the precision of the method has been evaluated and a reference range for normal male ( less than 45 u/l ) and female ( less than 30 u/l ) subjects determined .
[ activity of some digestive enzymes in the urine and feces in infants with acute gastro-intestinal diseases ] .
the influence of cortisol on the enzymes of fatty acid synthesis in developing mammalian lung and brain .
administration of cortisol to fetal rabbits resulted in a 42 % inhibition of pulmonary de novo fatty acid synthesis from acetyl coenzyme a ( coa ) ( p = less than 0.025 ) .
this was associated with inhibition of acetyl-coa carboxylase ( ec. 6.4.1.2. ) activity ( p = less than 0.01 ) and a tendency towards decreased activity of fatty acid synthetase .
there was no effect on pulmonary microsomal fatty acid elongation activity .
light and electron microscopic examination of the apex of the right lung of control and cortisol-treated animals revealed changes consistent with accelerated lung maturation in the treated animals .
the in vitro activities of acetyl-coa carboxylase and fatty acid synthetase were similar in rabbit lung and thus acetyl-coa carboxylase activity does not appear to be rate limiting for de novo fatty acid synthesis in lung .
no significant change in the activity of enzymes associated with de novo fatty acid synthesis of microsomal fatty acid elongation was found in fetal brain after cortisol exposure .
however , in a parallel study on fatty acid synthesis in fetal liver , cortisol administration resulted in a 30 % increase in fatty acid synthetase activity ( p less than 0.025 ) .
the finding of cortisol-induced inhibition of de novo fatty acid synthesis in fetal rabbit lung may be related to the known inhibitory effect of cortisol on lung growth in the fetus .
[ tooth and alveolar process trauma in children ] .
the golden era of immunology at the rockefeller institute .
the relation between myosin adenosinetriphosphatase activity and inactivation of myosin under alkaline conditions of heart muscles in mammals of different size .
atpase activity of myosin in the heart muscle of the mouse , rat , guinea-pig , rabbit and pig was studied at neutral ph and under mild alkaline conditions .
at neutral ph the atpase activity of myosin is inversely related to body size of the animal species .
the decrease of atpase activity of myosin after alkaline preincubation depends on the degree of atpase activity of intact myosin , i.e. myosin from the heart of the mouse exhibits high atpase activity ae same relationship was found , when comparing myosin of new-born and adult heart muscle .
it is concluded that the rate of alkaline inactivation of heart myosin is directly related to the degree of atpase activity of intact myosin in all animals .
carbon dioxide response curves during hypothermia .
the responsiveness of the medullary chemoreceptors , measured by the ventilatory response to hypercapnia given in an hyperoxic gas mixture in intact anesthetized dogs has been evaluated during normothermia and at two levels of hypothermia .
the response was studied in : 1 ) 20 dogs during normothermia , 2 ) 10 of these dogs at a blood temperature of 32-33 degrees c , and 3 ) in the other 10 dogs during deeper hypothermia ( 28-29 degrees c ) .
the ventilatory response to co2 decreased while blood temperature was lowered until the response became absent during deep hypothermia .
for normothermia and both levels of hypothermia a similar oxygen drive of ventilation was found which was equivalent to approximately one fourth of the spontaneous ventilation .
it is suggested , that in the deeply hypothermic animal the normal respiratory drive is apparently of peripheral ( arterial ) chemoreceptor origin and when this drive is nullified or significantly decreased , gentle shivering could be responsible for stimulating the respiratory center .
[ zollinger-ellison syndrome treated medically by an inhibitor of h2 histamine receptors ] .
metiamide an histamine h2-receptors antagonist has been used to treat a case of zollinger-ellison syndrome characterized by a long standing diarrhea , an important gastric hypersecretion and a moderatly elevated plasma gastrin but without digestive ulceration .
at the dose of 600 mg per day , metiamide induced a complete suppression of acid secretion , an effect which lasted for 15 days after stopping the drug .
accordingly and since the only finding at time of laparotomy was a small lymph node enlarged with endocrine metastatic tissue , the stomach was left intact and metiamide pursued .
during the first 4 months of chronic administration of metiamide , acid secretion was maintained at levels below 25 p.cent of initial values .
ulteriorly however , although dosages of metiamide were increased , acid hypersecretion resumed and a duodenal ulcer developed .
total gastrectomy was then performed 11 months after the beginning of metiamide .
in spite of the failure of metiamide treatment , the long term follow up of this case of zollinger-ellison syndrome , allowed us to get theoretical and practical informations .
[ relationship between serum antibiotic concentration and inhibiting potency of the serum. application to ampicillin and amoxicillin ] .
letter : gamma glutamyltranspeptidase ( gamma gt ) after myocardial infarction .
[ exercise test in the asthmatic patient. study of 75 patients ] .
frequency of exercise-induced asthma has been studied in 75 unselected asthmatic patients ( adults and children ) by measuring the forced expiratory volume at one second ( fev1 ) and the vital capacity ( vc ) before and after a treadmill exercise , continued until heart rate was at least equal to 80 p.cent-85 p.cent of maximum heart rate .
in 19 subjects ( 25 p.cent ) , a more than 20 p.cent decrease from control value of fev1 was recorded ten minutes after exercise ended .
exercise-induced bronchial obstruction was relieved by a beta adrenergic bronchodilator aerosol inhalation .
in the group of 19 subjects having exercise-induced asthma , a significant positive correlation was found between pre-exercise fev1 values and post-exercise fev1 decreases .
in the whole group of 75 subjects exercise-induced asthma was related to the severity of asthma and not to other clinical or physical characteristics of the subjects .
from the data of other authors it appears that frequency of exercise-induced asthma is variable .
the reasons of those differences are discussed .
[ anaphylactic accidents due to glaphenine. 5 cases ] .
the authors report 5 cases of shock type anaphylactic reactions after the ingestion of glafenine .
up to the present , acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis had chiefly been reported .
the existence of allergy to this medication remains to be proved by the wider application of allergological studies .
[ letter : an undesirable effect of beta-stimulating agents ? outbreak of an acute psychiatric symptomatology in mental patients ] .
[ effect of sex hormones preparations on some indices of liver function under experimental conditions ] .
[ diagnostic value of a1at , alpha-amylase and ggtp activity in urine in chronic glomerulonephritis ] .
management of myocardial infarction .
the treatment of intractable pain .
anxiolytic drugs .
'meningitis by the score ' .
intranasal betamethasone valerate in seasonal rhinitis .
a double-blind study comparing betamethasone valerate and placebo aerosols was carried out in 40 patients with a history of seasonal allergic rhinitis and positive skin tests to grass pollens .
analysis of the symptoms recorded on a daily record card for a period of one month indicated that the mean monthly symptom-score was lower for all symptoms in the group on active therapy and that this reached statistical significance for the symptom of sneezing .
significantly more antihistamine tablets were used by the placebo group as compared with the active group ( p less than 0-05 ) .
the patients ' assessment of their treatment was in favour of betamethasone valerate ( p less than 0-05 ) .
no clinically significant side-effects were associated with the treatment , which was well tolerated .
urinary acidification in renal allografts .
urinary acid excretion was measured in 35 human renal allograft recipients during the first few days after the onset of diuresis and two months after transplantation .
in 16 out of 17 rejection episodes an early significant decrease of renal total net h+ excretion was observed .
this urinary acidification impairment preceded the serum creatinine increase .
only few patients showed variations in blood ph and c1- .
the acidification defect may be due to the ischaemic changes of rejection .
early impairment of urinary acidification supports a clinical diagnosis of rejection .
a simple test for early detection of severe renal homograft rejection .
adding urine to a standard buffered fibrinogen solution and then coagulating it with thrombin gives reproducible coagulation times with normal urines .
coagulation of fibrinogen by thrombin is prolonged in acid solutions with a ph below six .
urines of high acidity lower the buffer ph of the fibrinogen solution below a value of six thus rendering the system uncoagulable or significantly prolonging the coagulation time .
with this test system we found that out of 16 severe homograft rejections 15 were accompanied by a high acid excretion in six-hour urine specimens .
ten of these acid episodes became apparent 12 to 48 hr before clinical symptoms and before elevation of the serum creatinine could be detected .
catalysis by acetylcholinesterase : evidence that the rate-limiting step for acylation with certain substrates precedes general acid-base catalysis .
inferences about the catalytic mechanism of acetylcholinesterase ( acetylcholine hydrolase , ec 3.1.1.7 ) are frequently made on the basis of a presumed analogy with chymotrypsin , ec 3.4.21.1 .
although both enzymes are serine hydrolases , several differences in the steady-state kinetic properties of the two have been observed .
in this report particular attention is focused on the second-order reaction constant , kcat/kapp .
while the reported ph dependence and deuterium oxide isotope effect associated with this parameter for chymotrypsin are generally consistent with simple models involving rate-limiting general acid-base catalysis , this study finds a more complicated situation with acetylcholinesterase .
the apparent pka of kcat/kapp for acetylcholinesterase varies between 5.5 and 6.3 for neutral substrates and involves nonlinear inhibition by [ h+ ] .
deuterium oxide isotope effects for kcat/kapp range from 1.1 for acetylcholine to 1.9 for p-nitrophenyl acetate .
the bimolecular reaction rate appears rate-limiting for acetylcholine at low concentrations , while a rate-limiting induced-fit step is proposed to account for apparent pka values and low deuterium oxide isotope effects associated with low concentrations of phenyl acetate and isoamyl acetate .
light-dependent absorption and selective scattering changes at 518 nm in chloroplast thylakoid membranes .
the light-induced absorbance change at 518 nm of isolated chloroplasts consists of a rapid phase , and a slow phase which is complete in about 20 sec .
the slow component of the 518 nm absorbance change correlates with the light-induced change in 90 degrees light scattering at 518 nm .
both show a similar time course , similar ph dependence with a maximum at ph 6.0 , and similar sensitivity to inhibitors and to treatment of the chloroplasts with a low concentration of glutaraldehyde .
their light minus dark difference spectra are similar with maxima at about 520 nm .
it is concluded that they are manifestations of the same phenomenon , and the slow absorbance increase at 518 nm is due to enhanced scattering .
it is proposed that the light-induced changes in scattering at 518 nm reflect alterations in selective dispersion , due to proton uptake and conformational changes in the chloroplast thylakoid membrane .
phix174 dna-dependent dna synthesis in vitro : requirement for p1 ban protein in dnab mutant extracts of escherichia coli .
ammonium sulfate fractionation of crude extracts of e. coli yields a soluble enzyme fraction ( about 25-fold purification ) that catalyzes the conversion of phix174 single-stranded dna to duplex dna .
the reaction is rifampicin-resistant , requires single-stranded dna , mg++ , deoxynucleoside triphosphates , and atp , and is stimulated by kcl .
such soluble enzyme fractions were prepared from e. coli strains carrying the prophage mutant p1bac , in which the viral dnab analog ( ban ) protein is expressed constitutively , or p1bacban , in which the expression of ban protein is prevented .
dna-synthesizing activity of ban protein containing fractions from wild-type or dnab ( p1bac ) lysogens was more temperature-resistant than that from e. coli containing only wild-type dnab protein , whereas that from dnab ( p1bacban ) lysogens of dnab cells was extremely thermolabile .
it is suggested that the temperature-resistant dna synthesis with fractions from p1bac lysogens is mediated by the p1 ban protein .
intramolecular arsanilazotyrosine-248-zn complex of carboxypeptidase a : a monitor of catalytic events .
the intensely chromophoric intramolecular coordination complex formed between arsanilazotyrosine-248 and the active site zinc atom of azocarboxypeptidase a ( johansen , j. t. & vallee , b. l. ( 1971 ) proc. nat. acad. sci. usa 68 , 2532-2535 ) is a spectrokinetic probe of catalytic events .
the interconversion of the azotyr-248-zn complex and its constituents is measured by stopped-flow ph and temperature-jump methods .
the rate of interconversion , 64,000 sec-1 , is orders of magnitude faster than that of the catalytic step itself ( about 0.01-100 sec-1 ) .
rapidly turned over peptide and ester substrates disrupt the azotyr-248-zn complex before hydrolysis occurs .
as a consequence , formation of azotyr-248 , substrate binding , and catalysis can all be monitored while catalysis is actually in progress .
the results of these dynamic studies specify a course of catalytic events , different from those postulated based on x-ray structure analysis .
if azotyr-248 is displaced , the direction is opposite to the inward movement postulated on the basis of x-ray studies and is not unique to induction by substrates , since rapid changes in ph also result in analogous spectral changes .
azotyr-248 carboxypeptidase has all the features which are essential for mechanistic studies : ( 1 ) it is enzymatically active ; ( 2 ) the spectra of the metal complex differ characteristically from those of its constituents ; ( 3 ) it responds dynamically to environmental factors ; and ( 4 ) the response time of the probe itself is much more rapid than is required for the measurement of the catalytic step .
these combined kinetic and spectral properties of the metal complex render it a powerful spectrokinetic probe to visualize and discern microscopic details of the catalytic process .
ubiquinone-mediated coupling of nadh dehydrogenase to active transport in membrane vesicles from escherichia coli .
addition of ubiquinone-1 to e. coli ml 308-225 membrane vesicles dramatically increases coupling between nadh oxidation and active transport such that initial rates and steady-state levels of lactose and amino-acid accumulation are comparable to those observed during d-lactate oxidation .
similar but less dramatic effects are observed with the quinone and succinate or l-lactate .
in the presence of nadh and ubiquinone-1 , the vesicles also generate a membrane potential ( interior negative ) that is similar in magnitude to that observed in the presence of d-lactate .
stimulation of nadh-dependent transport by ubiquinone-1 can not be accounted for by increased rates of oxidation of nadh , and the effect of the quinone on nadh-dependent lactose transport is not observed in vesicles depleted of nadh dehydrogenase activity .
thus , it is apparent that ubiquinone-1 shunts electrons from nadh dehydrogenase [ nadh : ( acceptor ) oxidoreductase ; ec 1.6.99.3 ] to the portion of the respiratory chain containing the energy-coupling site .
the findings demonstrate unequivocally that inefficient coupling of nadh oxidation to active transport can not be due to the presence of inverted vesicles .
in addition , they provide further support for specific localization of the energy-coupling site .
protection of lethally irradiated mice with allogeneic fetal liver cells : influence of irradiation dose on immunologic reconstitution .
after lethal irradiation long-lived , immunologically vigorous c3hf mice were produced by treatment with syngeneic fetal liver cells or syngeneic newborn or adult spleen cells .
treatment of lethally irradiated mice with syngeneic or allogeneic newborn thymus cells or allogeneic newborn or adult spleen cells regularly led to fatal secondary disease or graft-versus-host reactions .
treatment of the lethally irradiated mice with fetal liver cells regularly yielded long-lived , immunologically vigorous chimeras .
the introduction of the fetal liver cells into the irradiated mice appeared to be followed by development of immunological tolerance of the donor cells .
the findings suggest that t-cells at an early stage of differentiation are more susceptible to tolerance induction than are t-lymphocytes at later stages of differentiation .
these investigations turned up a perplexing paradox which suggests that high doses of irradiation may injure the thymic stroma , rendering it less capable of supporting certain t-cell populations in the peripheral lymphoid tissue .
alternatively , the higher and not the lower dose of irradiation may have eliminated a host cell not readily derived from fetal liver precursors which represents an important helper cell in certain cell-mediated immune functions , e.g. , graft-versus-host reactions , but which is not important in others , e.g. , allograft rejections .
the higher dose of lethal irradiation did not permit development or maintenance of a population of spleen cells that could initiate graft-versus-host reactions but did permit the development of a population of donor cells capable of achieving vigorous allograft rejection .
these observations contribute to understanding of some of the persisting immunodeficiencies that are observed in man after fatal irradiation and bone marrow transplantation .
these results should suggest better approaches to more effective cellular engineering for correction of immunodeficiency diseases and for treatment of immunodeficiency diseases and of leukemias and malignancies of man .
mechanism of action of penicillin : triggering of the pneumococcal autolytic enzyme by inhibitors of cell wall synthesis .
during penicillin treatment of an autolysin defective mutant pneumococcus we have observed three novel phenomena : ( i ) growth of the mutant cultures is inhibited by the same concentrations of penicillin that induce lysis in the wild type .
( ii ) mutant bacteria treated with the minimum growth inhibitory concentration of penicillin will lyse upon the addition of wild-type autolysin to the growth medium .
chloramphenicol and other inhibitors of protein synthesis protect the cells against lysis by exogenous enzyme .
sensitivity of the cells to exogenous autolysin requires treatment with penicillin or other inhibitors of cell wall synthesis ( e.g. , d-cycloserine or fosfonomycin ) since exogenous autolysin alone has no effect on bacterial growth .
( iii ) treatment with penicillin ( or other inhibitors of cell wall synthesis ) causes the escape into the medium of a choline-containing macromolecule that has properties suggesting that it contains pneumococcal lipoteichoic acid ( forssman antigen ) .
each one of these three phenomena ( growth inhibition , sensitization to exogenous autolysin , and leakage of lipoteichoic acid ) shows the same dose response as that of the penicillin-induced lysis of wild-type pneumococci .
on the basis of these findings we propose a new hypothesis for the mechanism of penicillin-induced lysis of bacteria .
it is suggested that inhibition of cell wall synthesis by any means triggers bacterial autolytic enzymes by destabilizing the endogenous complex of an autolysin inhibitor ( lipoteichoic acid ) and autolytic enzyme .
escape of lipoteichoic acid-like material to the growth medium is a consequence of this labilization .
chloramphenicol protects bacteria against penicillin-induced lysis by interfering with the activity of the autolytic enzyme , rather than by depleting the concentration of the enzyme at the cell surface .
identification of nadph-thioredoxin reductase system in euglena gracillis .
euglena gracilis contains a protein system which can utilize the reducing power of nadph in the ribonucleotide reductase-catalyzed reduction of ctp .
the proteins required for this reaction are a flavoprotien with a molecular weight of approximately 185,000 which is functionally similar to thioredoxin reductase ( nadph ) , ec 1.6.4.5 , and another protein ( protein i ) whose function in the reaction is unknown .
this new protein does not appear to contain a prosthetic group and has a molecular weight of approximately 240,000 .
in addition , the ribonucleotide reductase active in the euglena nadph-thioredoxin reductase system is more complex than the protein reported in a previous publication [ ( 1974 ) j. biol. chem. 249 , 4428-4434 ] .
the enzyme preparation described in this report contains four different types of polypeptide chains which may complex to form the active enzyme .
purification of folate binding factor in normal umbilical cord serum .
human umbilical cord serum was found to contain both free folate and folate complexed to a high-molecular weight factor .
the complexed folate was bound to a very high affinity binder and was present in concentrations equivalent to as much as 60 ng of 5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid per ml of serum .
acidification of the serum caused disassociation of the folate-binder complex .
released folates were separated from binder by sephadex gel filtration , zonal centrifugation through sucrose gradients , or adsorption onto activated charcoal .
the separated binding factor , either saturated or unsaturated with folate , had a molecular weight of about 40,000 on sephadex g-200 chromatography .
binding of [ 3h ] pteroylglutamic acid was rapid and , as in the original endogenous folate-binder complex , was essentially irreversible at neutral ph .
the affinity and specificity of the binder were examined by competition experiments using [ 3h ] pteroylglutamic acid and nonradioactive folate derivatives .
oxidized folates were bound in preference to reduced derivatives , but only three to four times more unlabeled 5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid than pteroylglutamic acid was required to produce an equal level of competition .
the strong affinity for 5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid , the main serum folate , suggests that the binder could be part of the mechanism by which the fetus concentrates maternally supplied folate for its growth and development .
intramolecular arsanilazotyrosine-248-zn complex of carboxypeptidase a : a monitor of multiple conformational states in solution .
the red azotyr-248-zn complex of arnilazocarboxypeptidase , previously used to demonstrate differences in conformation of the enzyme in crystals and in solution , has now provided means to detect multiple conformations of the enzyme in solution by stopped-flow ph and temperature jump experiments .
these studies identify two distinct processes .
er + h+ in equilibrium ey ( i ) , is the extremely rapid , kfast about 10 ( 5 ) sec-1 , ph dependent dissociation of the metal complex .
ey in equilibrium ey ' ( ii ) , is much slower , kslow about 5 sec-1 , ph independent interconversion of two distinct populations of protein molecules , ey and ey ' , in which the yellow azo-tyr-248 is different conformations .
these two conformations can be differentiated readily by stopped-flow ph-jump experiments , since i is three to four orders of magnitude faster than ii .
mathematical expressions derived from this mechanism accurately predict all observations over the ph range from 6.0 to 8.5 .
in a previous stopped-flow ph-jump experiment , lipcomb and coworkers [ quiocho , f. a. , mcmurray , c. h. & lipcomb , w. h. ( 1972 ) , proc. nat. acad. sci. usa 69 , 2850-2854 ] recognized only a single process with a rate constant of about 6 sec-1 , but not the major , very rapid rate observed here .
the failure to detect this fast process led to the postulation of a number of explanations intended to account for the detection of only a single , slow rate .
the present observations show that the premise for those conjectures is not valid .
the azoprobe reveals the existence of rapidly interconvertible substructures of carboxypeptidase a , and the results support the view that in solution , enzymes can adopt multiple , readily interconvertible and related conformations which could then either facilitate or impede catalysis .
in crystals , rearrangement of molecular structure could be severely impaired or restricted , and crystallization might single out either active or inactive conformations .
in the latter case , such crystals would have greatly reduced activities and markedly altered catalytic behavior , as is observed for carboxypeptidase a .
in combination with detailed kinetic analysis of crystals , conformational analysis in solution should be a valuable guide to discern enzyme mechanisms and select crystals for x-ray structure analysis .
presence of norepinephrine and related enzymes in isolated brain microvessels .
norepinephrine and the enzymes involved in its synthesis and degradation were found to be associated with isolated brain microvessels .
the significance of these results are discussed with respect to adrenergic innervation of the cerebral microvessels and thereby neural regulation of the cerebral microcirculation .
control of breathing in disease .
recent studies on transport of respiratory gases by the red blood cell .
disorders of micturition in bacterial prostatitis .
measurements of urinary flow rate were performed in 16 patients with established prostatitis before and after a course of antimicrobial therapy .
before treatment the maximum flow rates were poor with abnormal flow curves and significant improvement in voiding characteristics were observed with treatment ( p less than 0.01 ) .
a preliminary electrophysiological ( emg ) study of sphincter activity suggested that the obstruction to the flow of urine was at least in part due to failure of the external sphincter to relax during micturition .
although the total number of cases in this series was small the study showed that prostatitis was associated with a disorder of micturition which correlated with the other clinical features of the disease and could be objectively evaluated .
eradication of infection restored normal conditions in the lower urinary tract .
change in ph of expressed prostatic secretion during the course of prostatitis .
bone marrow transplants .
[ picolylamides of the nicethamide type. 6. structure-activity relationships of analeptics of the nicethamide type ] .
[ biotransformation and pharmacokinetics of beta-receptor blockaders ] .
[ synthesis of new beta 1-receptor blockaders ] .
[ structure-activity relationship of phenoxyalkanolamine derivatives with selective beta 1-receptor blocking action ] .
[ the pharmacology of ( +/- ) -1- ( 4-cyclohexylureido-phenoxy ) -2-hydroxy-3-tert-butylaminopropane ( talinolol , cordanum , 02-115 ) ] .
[ studies on the action of talinolol ( cordanum , 02-115 ) on the coronary blood circulation ] .
[ the effects of 1- ( 4-cyclohexylureidophenoxy ) -2-hydroxy-3-tert-butylaminopropane ( talinolol , cordanum , 02-115 ) , practolol and propranolol on the lipid content of the rat serum ] .
[ study on the chronic toxicity of 1- ( 4-cyclohexylureidophenoxy ) -2-hydroxy-3-tert-butylaminopropane ( talinolol , cordanum , 02-115 ) in the rat and the beagle ] .
[ teratological study of talinolol ( cordanum , 02-115 ) ] .
[ quantitative colorimetric determination of 1- ( 4-cyclohexylureidophenoxy ) -2-hydroxy-3-tert butylaminopropane ( talinolol cordanum , 02-115 ) in body fluids ] .
[ the pharmacokinetics of 1- ( 4-cyclohexylureidophenoxy ) -2-hydroxy-3-tert-butylaminopropane ( talinolol , cordanum , 02-115 ) . 1. blood levels in dogs ] .
[ the pharmacokinetics of 1- ( 4-cyclohexylureidophenoxy ) -2-hydroxy-3-tert-butylaminopropane ( talinolol , cordanum , 02-115 ) 2. excretion , blood level and distribution of the 14c-labeled compound in the rat ] .
[ hemodynamic action of talinolol ( cordanum , 02-115 ) , a new beta-receptor blocking substance , in man ] .
[ clinicopharmacological studies on the bronchoconstrictive side effect of the beta-receptor blockader talinolol ( cordanum , 02-115 ) in patients with asthma or chronic obstructive lung diseases ] .
nonenzymatic reactivation of des-acetyl citrate lyase by acetyl adenylate .
first example of enzyme activation by chemotrophic modification .
the experimental conditions of nonenzymatic reactivation of des-acetyl citrate lyase from k. aerogenes were studied .
it was found that at ph 8.5 0.2 mm acetyl amp causes a fast reactivation of the enzyme .
the ph dependence of activity and the km for citrate are very similar for both native and reactivated enzyme .
relationship between bovine serum albumin structure and its chemical equilibria with hydrogen and 5-hydroxytryptamine ions .
from the analysis of titration curves with hydrogen and 5-ht ions , it was found that the electrostatic interaction parameter of protein macroion and the number sites of 5-ht fixing were smaller over an acid and base ph range as compared to their values at neutral ph .
our data were interpreted by the conformational changes which can be induced when bsa is exposed to denaturation by acid and alkali ph .
[ circadian variations of the activity and induction of tyrosine aminotransferase after x-irradiation ] .
some psysicochemical properties of mitochondrial and cell sap alanine aminotransferase from the rat cns .
the authors describe different properties of brain mitochondrial and cell sap alanine aminotransferase .
they showed that the mitochondrial enzyme was inhibited by maleate , chlorides , acetate and phosphate with a high ionic strength ( over 1.8 ) , that its ph optimum lay between 7.5 and 8.5 , that it was thermolabile at over 40 degrees c and that it was salted out from solutions with ammonium sulphate at 0.6 -- 0.8 saturation .
the activity of the cell sap enzyme was inhibited by phosphate at an ionic strength of only 0.12 , less markedly by maleate and not at all by chlorides and acetate ; its ph optimum was about 8 , it was thermostable up to 60 degrees c and was precipitated from ammonium sulphate solution at between 0.35 and 0.6 saturation .
the authors conclude from their results that two different alanine aminotransferase enzymes are present in the cns .
[ postvacccinal encephalomyelitis after protective antirabic innoculation , combined with polioencephalomyelitis ( lyssa ? ) ] .
by means of two cases of postvaccinal encephalomyelitis following antirabies vaccination has been demonstrated the meaning of these complications .
in one of these cases has been presumed a simultaneous illness of quiet rabies .
the difficulty of an aetiological diagnostic by the morphological effigy of the encephalomyelitids has been referred .
an improvement of the dispensaire-system and of the diagnostic of complications following antirabies vaccination is postulated .
[ course and results of treatment with 3 activating neuroleptics ] .
drug addiction : i. a theoretical framework for behavior therapy .
components of desensitization in modification of fear among genuinely fearful subjects .
the effect of l-dopa on young patients with simple schizophrenia , treated with neuroleptic drugs : a double-blind cross-over trial with madopar and placebo .
thirteen out of 18 young out-patients with simple schizophrenia under neuroleptic treatment completed a double-blind cross-over trial with madopar [ l-dopa + benserazid ( a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor ) ] and placebo .
nine patients were given 900 mg l-dopa + 225 mg benserazid daily , 1 patient received 600 mg l-dopa + 150 mg benserazid , and 3 patients , 300 mg l-dopa + 75 mg benserazid .
in these doses , l-dopa was effective against emotional withdrawal , blunted affect , tendency to isolation and apathy , without inducing or aggravating productive , accessory symptoms .
the activity score , according to the specific activity-withdrawal scale , was significantly increased ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas the total bprs score ( brief psychiatric rating scale ) was slightly , but significantly reduced ( p less than 0.05 ) .
in cases where l-dopa had to be limited to 600 and 300 mg daily , a tendency to anxiety , distortion of thinking , and a sense of unreality were observed , depending on the dose of l-dopa .
in no case were gastrointestinal , cardiovascular or neurological side-effects observed .
the specificity of binding of the narcotic agonist etorphine in synaptic membranes of rat brain in vivo .
when 3h-etorphine was administered to rats in a pharmacologically effective dose ( 0.75 mug/kg intracisternally ) , the labeled drug was concentrated in synaptic membrane fractions isolated from the brains of rats killed 10 min after etorphine injection .
pretreatment of the animals with the narcotic antagonists naloxone , diprenorphine or l-cyclorphan , blocked the pharmacological responses to etorphine and reduced 3h-etorphine binding in the membrane fractions .
the differences between 3h-etorphine bound in synaptic membranes of rats treated with d-cyclorphan ( inactive isomer ) and l-cyclorphan ( active antagonist ) were in the same range as the reductions in etorphine binding in antagonist-treated rats , indicating that stereospecific and pharmacologically-specific binding sites in synaptic membranes in vivo were of the same magnitude : about 0.04 pmol/g brain .
the cholinergic system and nociception in the primate : interactions with morphine .
in experiment 1 the shock titration task was used to evaluate the antinoceptive properties of 5 different classes of cholinergic compounds in the rhesus monkey .
only scopolamine and high doses of physostigmine were effective in elevating the shock threshold .
the apparent antinociceptive effect of physostigmine , however , was difficult to separate from its nonspecific behavioral depressant effect and was probably not related to an increase in cholinergic tone .
experiment 2 examined the interaction of morphine with arecoline , scopolamine and physostigmine .
only scopolamine ( 0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg ) and high doses of physostigmine ( 0.1 mg/kg ) interacted with morphine in the shock titration paradigm .
the multiplicative interaction of morphine with scopolamine was confirmed in experiment 3 over a wider range of doses .
it was concluded that morphine and the cholinergic compounds produce antinociceptive effects through different mechanisms of the pain system .
effects of thienodiazepine derivatives on human sleep as compared to those of benzodiazepine derivatives .
the effects of new thienodiazepine derivatives , such as clotiazepam and y-7131 , on normal human sleep were investigated on 5 subjects and compared to those of benzodiazepine derivatives , such as diazepam and nitrazepam .
rem sleep was significantly decreased only with 2 mg of y-7131 and rebound elevation of rem sleep did not follow in recovery 1 and 2 nights .
by using partial differential rem deprivation which was designed by us , there was also no rebound elevation of rem sleep noted in recovery 2 nights following 2 mg of y-7131 medication .
rem sleep was not suppressed with 15 mg of clotiazepam , 6 mg of diazepam and 10 mg of nitrazepam when compared to the baseline night .
with regard to nrem sleep , stage 2 was significantly increased with 15 mg of clotiazepam and 10 mg of nitrazepam , but stage sws was significantly decreased with 10 mg of nitrazepam .
effect of two weeks ' treatment with thioridazine , chlorpromazine , sulpiride and bromazepam , alone or in combination with alcohol , on learning and memory in man .
forty paid healthy male students participated in two subacute experiments of 6 weeks each .
in the first trial 20 of them received bromazepam , thioridazine , and placebo double blind cross over for 2 weeks each , and in the second trial the active agents administered to the other 20 participants were chlorpromazine and sulpiride .
the tests used were paired associate learning with nonsense syllables and digit memory span .
before testing the subjects took either an alcoholic or a nonalcoholic bitter drink .
as in the previous study from this laboratory , alcohol was found to impair learning capacity .
of the drugs used only bromazepam impaired learning significantly , and the combined effect of alcohol and bromazepam on learning capacity was very deleterious .
the adrenolytic effect of drugs did not correlate with their effect on learning .
caution is necessary when prescribing bromazepam for active outpatients at least in doses used in this study .
effects of chronic exposure to stressors on avoidance-escape behavior and on brain norepinephrine .
a single exposure to a severe stressor ( either cold swim or inescapable shock ) impairs subsequent performance in a shuttle avoidance-escape task ( 1 ) , a deficit attributed to reduction in brain noradrenergic activity produced by these stressors .
in the present paper , two experiments are described which examine how repeated exposure to such stressors affects ( a ) shuttle avoidance-escape performance ( experiment 1 ) , and ( b ) aspects of brain norepinephrine metabolism ( experiment 2 ) .
experiment 1 showed that , whereas subjects receiving the single exposure to cold swim or shock showed a large avoidance-escape deficit , subjects that received repeated exposure to these stressors for 14 days performed similarly to the control group that received no stressor .
experiment 2 showed that , whereas subjects that received one session of the inescapable shock stressor showed a lower level of norepinephrine in hypothalamus and cortex than did subjects that received no shock , subjects that received repeated exposure to inescapable shock or cold swim showed neurochemical `` habituation . ''
subjects that received repeated shock showed elevated tyrosine hydroxylase activity and no depletion of norepinephrine level , and both repeated shock and cold swim caused a decrease in uptake of 3h-norepinephrine by slices of cortex in vitro .
thus , it is concluded that the behavioral and neurochemical changes that were observed after the stressful conditions studied are consistent with the hypothesis that changes in avoidance-escape responding following exposure to these stressful events are due to changes in brain noradrenergic activity .
molecular mechanisms in the receptor-mediated regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase .
plasma/blood level monitoring techniques in psychiatry .
short or long hospitalization for psychiatric disorders ?
long-acting phenothiazine and social therapy in the community treatment of acute schizophrenics .
cns stimulants and anabolic substances in geropsychiatric therapy .
gerovital-h3 -- a review of the literature .
behavior analysis of the effects and mechanisms of action of benzodiazepines .
the possible involvement of gaba mechanisms in the action of benzodiazepines on central catecholamine neurons .
possible involvement of gaba in the central actions of benzodiazepines .
involvement of gaba in the action of benzodiazepine -- studies on rat cerebellum .
on characterizing psychosis in multi-ethnic settings .
dopamine neurons : role of impulse flow and presynaptic receptors in the regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase .
evidence for drug actions on both pre- and postsynaptic catecholamine receptors in the cns .
evaluation of combined pharmacological and psychotherapeutic treatment in patients with functional abdominal disorders .
78 patients suffering from various functional abdominal complaints have been trated in a 2 x 2 double-blind design : ( a ) psychotherapy with ro 5-3350 ( th/ro ) ; ( b ) psychotherapy with placebo ( th/p ) ; ( c ) ro 5-3350 without psychotherapy ( nih/ro ) ; ( d ) placebo without psychotherapy ( nth/p ) .
results show that a considerable amount of improvement can not be ascribed to the two critical factors or the interaction of both , but are due to unspecific influences in the course of treatment .
some of the results concerning the combination of th and the psychotropic drug pose interesting questions for further research and bare implications for double-blind trials of psychotropic drugs .
the results suggest that possibly properties of any psychotropic drug have to be related to a doctor-patient relationship within which the personal problems of the patient are dealt with .
in order to evaluate such properties , special methodological precautions have to be taken .
these will be briefly discussed .
allosteric interpretation of haemoglobin properties .
effects of x-irradiation on cell division , oxygen consumption , and growth medium ph of an insect cell line cultured in vitro .
letter : the reactions of hydrogens atoms in aqueous solutions : effect of ph on reactions with cysteine and penicillamine .
behavioral effects of hypothalamic releasing hormones in animals and men .
prolyl-leucyl-glycine amide ( plg ) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone ( trh ) : dopa potentiation and biogenic amine studies .
some effects of acth4-10 on performance during a continuous reaction task .
the renin-angiotensin system and drinking behavior .
neurotransmitters and temperature regulation .
neuroendocrine effects of perinatal androgenization in the male ferret .
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol action and neuronal membrane-bound enzymes .
modification of in vitro neurotransmitter release from rat brain slices by hypophyseotropic factors .
techniques for the study of the biochemical basis of drug action .
structure and function of haemoglobin .
[ the role of mg and ca ions in muscle contraction ( author's transl ) ] .
[ giant cell tumors. conclusions ] .
role of cardiovascular and ionic changes in pathogenesis and prevention of isoprenaline-induced cardiac necrosis .
blood pressure , heart rate , oxygen uptake , and blood values of po2 , pco2 , and ph were studied in unanesthetized rats for 8 hours .
after a cardiotoxic dose of 20 mg/kg isoprenaline , s.c. , blood pressure fell from 117 to 72 mm hg , heart rate accelerated from 326 to 497 beats/minute , and cardiac work diminished by about 15 % .
metabolic rate increased by about 80 % , blood values of po2 rose , and those of pco2 fell somewhat , whereas blood ph dropped from 7.48 to 7.38 , indicating metabolic acidosis .
propranolol ( 40 mg/kg , i.p. ) and verapamil ( 50 mg/kg , i.p. ) , both of which almost completely prevented isoprenaline-induced cardiac necroses , inhibited the chronotropic and calorigenic actions of isoprenaline by about 50 % .
while propranolol inhibited the depressor effect of isoprenaline completely , verapamil enhanced it : blood pressure fell to 46 mm hg .
isoprenaline-induced fall of blood ph was not prevented by either propranolol or verapamil .
decrease of blood ph and cardionecrotisation were enhanced when isoprenaline was given together with 4.8 g/kg ethanol , p.o .
in conclusion , hemodynamic actions of isoprenaline , especially hypotension , seem to be nonessential for the production of cardiac necroses .
strong acidification can aggravate the cardiotoxicity of isoprenaline .
alterations in norepinephrine pattern in the damaged myocardium in the rat .
in the albino rat , the evolvement of myocardial necrosis induced by a single injection of iso was accompanied by a fall in total ne .
pretreatment with propranolol and pargyline protected against iso-induced necrosis and myocardial hypertrophy , but did not influence the iso-induced depletion of ne stores .
the depletion of ne stores is not due to impairment in synthesis or increased intraneuronal metabolism of ne since , in iso-treated rats , neither cardiac tyrosine hydroxylase activity nor mao activity was altered .
the decrease in endogenous ne is not due to a defect in the storage of ne .
the ability of myocardium to take up and store ne returned to normal within 48 hours , whereas endogenous levels returned to normal within 5 days , even in the presence of demonstrable necrosis .
thus , there is lack of correlation between chemical and morphological changes , since catecholamine depletion occurred in the absence of morphologically demonstrable tissue injury , and the function of the adrenergic neuron returns to normal in the presence of demonstrable necrosis .
prevention of myocardial ca overload and necrotization by mg and k salts or acidosis .
the crucial point in the pathogenesis of isoproterenol-induced myocardial necrotization is an abundant intracellular ca accumulation leading to high energy phosphate exhaustion .
accordingly , in the early stage of the isoproterenol-induced necrotization process , the onset of atp and creatine phosphate breakdown strictly parallels the acute ca gain .
in this type of necrosis , the mg losses from the myocardium appear as a concomitant phenomenon .
the hearts can be protected against the deleterious ca overload and necrotization by increasing the plasma concentration of mg , k , or h ions in order to counterbalance ca according to the ration ( see article ) .
on the other hand , if mg , k , or h ion concentrations are too low , isoproterenol-induced ca uptake and myocardial lesions are potentiated .
receptors for insulin , nsila-s , and growth hormone : applications to disease states in man .
explanation of the stimulation of microsomal n-demethylation reactions by soluble supernatant fraction .
addition of the cell soluble supernatant fraction to an assay medium containing nadph generating system , mixed function oxidase substrate and microsomes , resulted in a stimulation of drug metabolism ranging from 12-75 % .
this stimulation was observed only when the supply of dadph generating system ( isocitric dehydrogenase or glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase ) was insufficient , leading to a nadph oxidation rate which was greater than the rate of reduction of nadp+ during the oxidation of a drug .
hence , under our assay conditions , the soluble supernate ( ss ) is only providing sufficient nadph generator , and possibly relieving inhibition by the generated nadp+ .
finally , microsomal lipid peroxidation measurements under these same conditions indicate negligible to no peroxidation activity in the absence of ss .
an attempt to correlated analgesia to changes in brain neuromediators in rats .
the analgesic activity of delta9thc , morphine and sodium salicylate was studied concomitantly with changes in brain stem levels of 5ht , 5hiaa , da and na .
the results show that a correlation exists between analgesia and changes in the serotonergic system of the brain stem .
furthermore morphine sulfate was found to increase the da concentration of the brain stem while delta9thc increased na levels .
we conclude that serotonergic system may be of major importance in analgesia while simultaneous changes in this system and/or the da and na systems may lead to a more pronounced analgesic activity .
colorimetric determination of 5-aminosalicylic acid and its n-acetylated metabolite on urine and feces .
a simple and convenient colorimetric method is described for the quantitative determination of 5-aminosalicylic acid ( 5-asa ) and n-acetyl-5-asa in urine and feces after oral administration of salicylazosulfa-pyridine ( sasp ) , the drug of choice in the treatment of ulcerative colitis .
n-acetyl-5-asa is extracted directly from the acidified biological specimen , deacetylated , and the liberated 5-asa subjected to a modified bratton-marshall reaction .
the 5-asa present in the specimen must be acetylated with acetic anhydride prior to extraction .
the violet colored product of the bratton-marshall reaction has a lambdamax of 560 nm and conforms to beer's law over the concentration range of 0-70 umg/ml .
average recoveries ( +/- s.d. , n = 6 ) of 5-asa added to rat and human urine and rat fecal homogenates were 91.6 +/- 4.9 % , 102 +/- 6.0 % , and 71.0 +/- 4.8 % , respectively .
interference by sasp and its sulfapyridine metabolities is negligible .
as demonstrated , the colorimetric method is of sufficient sensitivity for application in most metabolic and pharmacokinetic studies conducted with sasp in laboratory animals and man .
[ pressures , blood gases , ph , lactate and pyruvate concentrations in the portal venous blood in patients after laparotomy during the first 9 days ( author's transl ) ] .
in 24 patients ( 16 women , 8 men , mean age 60 years ) , who underwent abdominal operations and who had a uncomplicated postoperative course , a teflon-tube was inserted into the portal vein at the end of laparotomy and remained there for maximal 9 days .
the mean values of the portal venous pressure as well as of the portal-central venous pressure gradient are unchanged during the period of all 9 days and are between 7,4 and 7,9 mmhg , between 5,6 and 6,9 mmhg respectively .
the arterio-portal venous 0 ( 2 ) -content difference shows in the mean no fluctuations and is about 2 vol. % .
on the first postoperative day the lactic and pyruvic acid concentrations in the artery and portal vein are moderately , but significantly elevated and decrease to normal values until day 7 .
- 9 .
biochemical and biophysical changes in guinea pigs after acute head injury .
animal experiments were set up mainly to derive additional diagnostic data from the study of biochemical changes after acute head injury .
in standardized experiments guinea pigs were subjected in groups of 20 to three identical head injuries , each of either 1.0 j or 1.5 j intensity .
the trauma was likely to result in a concussion or contusion syndrome similar to that found in man ; 40 animals served as controls .
during the 60 min after injury observation and measurement of body functions did not reveal signs of a shock-like condition or hypoxaemia in the traumatized animals compared with control animals .
superficial anaesthesia probably did not influence the findings .
temperature and respiration were altered significantly in all the animals receiving head injuries .
blood gas analysis showed a decrease of standard bicarbonate only after the 1.5 j injury but even though hypoxaemia was not present 2,3-diphosphoglycerate values and p50 increased , compared with the control animals .
the fall of plasma lipid concentrations reported probably had to be seen as a sympathomimetic effect of the minor ( 1.0 j ) trauma .
of special significance was the increased activity of malate dehydrogenase and aldolase , found only in the blood of severely traumatized animals , as this could serve as an early diagnostic aid for evaluating head injuries .
total brain ischaemia in dogs : cerebral physiological and metabolic changes after 15 minutes of circulatory arrest .
cross-clamping of the ascending aorta in dogs for 15 min produced severe neurological deficit , observed for up to 20 h .
immediately after restoration of the circulation , the intracranial pressure in the cisterna magna increased transiently to a mean peak of 22.8 torr ( sd +/- 1.7 ) because of a compensatory increase in systemic arterial pressure , without a fall in cerebral perfusion pressure .
the intracranial pressure returned to control values 15-30 min after ischaemia and showed no secondary rise during the 8 h of observation .
the electroencephalogram became isoelectric 34 +/- 6.5 s ( mean +/-sd ) after circulatory occlusion , and was abnormal when it reappeared 5 h 36 min ( sd +/- 2 h 4 min ) after the circulation was restored .
the electrical impedance of the brain increased immediately after ischaemia and returned rapidly towards pre-ischaemic values during re-perfusion .
the cerebral water had not increased measurably 4 h after ischaemia .
after ischaemia , the lactate concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid increased to 4.7 mequiv./1 ( sem +/-0.1 ) and the ph decreased to 7.17 ( sem +/-0.02 ) ; both returned to control values after 3.5 h .
the cerebral glucose uptake was decreased 35 min after ischaemia , cerebral oxygen uptake remained unchanged but cerebral blood flow decreased ( p less than 0.05 at 90 min ) .
immediately after cardiac arrest , recovery was impaired more by the presence of focal abnormal brain perfusion than by intracranial hypertension .
oxygen and carbon dioxide dissociation of duck blood .
oxygen and co2 dissociation of duck blood was studied in blood samples equilibrated with known gas mixtures at the bird's body temperature ( 41 degrees c ) and analyzed in the van slyke manometric apparatus and in ph electrodes .
at various ph values between 7.38 and 7.55 the hill plots yielded straight and parallel lines over a wide range of o2 saturation , the hill coefficient being 2.9 .
half saturation pressure p50 at ph = 7.50 was 36 torr .
the bohr effect factor was -0.53 .
buffering properties were analyzed by equilibrating blood samples with gas mixtures of different pco2 at 41 degrees c .
the buffer value for whole blood in the range of 3-7 % co2 was 19.3 mmol-l-1-ph-1 , the buffer value for true plasma 22.9 mmol-l-1-ph-1 .
the co2 dissociation curve constructed using the buffer values had a slope of 0.17 mmol-l-1-torr-1 in the pco2 range from 40 to 50 torr .
the co2 content of oxygenated blood at pco2 = 40 torr was 21.7 mmol-l-1 .
the haldane effect factor at pco2 = 35 torr equalled 0.30 mmol of combined co2 per mmol hbo2 .
with the values of po2 , pco2 and ph measured in arterial blood of undisturbed and unrestrained , resting ducks effective dissociation curves for both o2 and co2 were constructed assuming a metabolic r.q. of 0.8 .
these curves are expected to resemble closely the actual in vitro dissociation curves of resting ducks .
first apparent dissociation constant of carbonic acid , pk'1 , of plasma and erythrocytes .
the first apparent dissociation constant of carbonic acid , pk'1 , of plasma and red cells was determined on venous blood of ten healthy , adult , male , human subjects .
ph and pco2 of plasma and red cells were analyzed electrometrically and a micromanometric method was used for the determination of total carbon dioxide content .
erythrocyte carbamino hemoglobin levels were estimated and used for the correction of erythrocyte pk'1 .
each blood sample was subjected to the following regimen before centrifugation , 1 ) as drawn from the antecubital vein , 2 ) oxygenated with a 5 % co2 , o2 balance gas mixture , and 3 ) reduced with a 5 % co2 , n2 balance gas mixture .
pk'1 of plasma and red cells are presented : ( see article ) .
the consistently larger values for red cell pk'1 than the respective plasma data may be attributed to the greater amount of carbamino hemoglobin concentration present in the erythrocytes .
a simplified method for the calculation of erythrocyte bicarbonate concentration using the experimentally determined red cell pk'1 value has been formulated .
the method involves the use of a regression equation relating plasma and red cell ph , the equivalence of plasma and red cell pco2 , along with the experimentally determined red cell pk'1 .
the effects of changes in ph and pco2 in blood and water on breathing in rainbow trout , salmo gairdneri .
the effect of sustained hypercapnia on the acid-base balance and gill ventilation in rainbow trout , salmo gairdneri , was studied .
the response to an increase in pico2 from 0.3 to 5.2 mm hg was a five-fold increase in gill ventilation volume and a slight increase in breathing frequency .
there was a concomitant rise in paco2 and an immediate fall in pha .
if pico2 was maintained at 5.2 mm hg for several days , ventilation volume gradually returned to the initial , prehypercapnic level within three days .
arterial ph also returned to the initial level within 2-3 days .
these results are consistent with the hypothesis that under these conditions fish regulate ph via hco3/c1 exchange across the gills rather than by changes in ventilation and subsequent adjustment of paco2 .
a reduction in environmental ph causes a reduction in pha but only a slow gradual increase in vg .
injections of hc1 or nahco3 into the blood have opposite effects on pha but both cause a marked increase in vg .
it is concluded that a rise in paco2 results in a rise in vg and that changes in ph in blood or water have little direct effect on vg in rainbow trout .
possible location for receptors involved in this reflex response are discussed .
[ acute toxic dilatation of the colon in hemorrhagic rectocolitis ] .
[ pulmonary function in chronic bronchitis and emphysema. vi. pulmonary mixing ] .
[ hypoxemia and hypercapnia in the development of chronic cor pulmonale ] .
[ post-traumatic hemorrhagic subacute constrictive pericarditis ] .
[ diabetic lactic acidosis ] .
[ myeloid metaplasia with myelosclerosis in the course of a syndrome of splenogenic portal hypertension with a background of splenic tuberculosis ] .
[ left atrial calcification. report of a case ] .
[ current studies in the clinical physiology of gastric secretion ] .
[ duodenal dyskinesia ( duodenal stasis ) and modifiers of digestive tract behavior ( atropine , insulin , metoclopramide ) ] .
[ problems in the treatment of the operated stomach ] .
[ treatment of biliary tract diseases ] .
[ medico-surgical tactics in the treatment of gastro-duodenal ulcer ] .
[ treatment of chronic pancreatitis ] .
[ treatment of ulcerative colitis ] .
[ treatment of chronic hepatitis ] .
[ prospective study of the evolutive modalities of active chronic hepatitis with or without corticotherapy ] .
[ therapeutic possibilities and risks in hepatic cirrhosis with water-electrolyte metabolism disorders ] .
[ treatment of the malabsorption syndrome ] .
[ treatment of chronic constipation ( constipation disease ) ] .
[ articular lubrication under normal and pathological conditions : therapeutic consequences ] .
[ premise for the pathogenetic definition of toxinfectious and endotoxic shock states ] .
[ clinical and prognostic studies of 41 patients with left anterior hemiblock in the onset of acute myocardial infarct ] .
[ detection of rheumatoid factors with the `` rheumatoid rosette '' immunocytoadherence test ] .
[ prolonged treatment with prednisone and azathioprine in chronic hepatitis with immunological disorders ] .
[ use of bethanidine sulfate in the treatment of arterial hypertension ] .
[ value of cycloserine ( tebemicin ) in the treatment of acute attacks of chronic pyelonephritis ] .
[ adenocarcinoma of the 2d portion of the duodenum ] .
[ lesional asymmetry and hepatocellular and enterocytic evolutive asynchronism under the influence of some exogenous factors ] .
[ some therapeutic aspects of obsessive-phobic neuroses ] .
the effect of ph upon fluoride uptake in intact enamel .
the relationship between ph and fluoride uptake in intact enamel of permanent premolars was investigated by using : ( 1 ) a sodium fluoride dentifrice , ( 2 ) a potassium fluoride + manganese chloride dentifrice , and ( 3 ) a sodium fluoride solution of the same fluoride concentration .
the first part of this paper deals with the in vitro uptake of fluoride from dentifrice slurries and from sodium fluoride solutions of different ph ranging from 7.1 to 4.5 .
this investigation showed that there was no significant difference between the agents but that the effect of the ph was significant .
the uptake of fluoride in the form of fluorapatite was more than five times larger at the lower ph level .
the second part of the paper deals with the rate of fluoride uptake ( increase in fluoride content ) from dentifrices in the same ph range .
it was shown that the three agents gave the same initial rate of fluoride uptake ( about 50 parts/10 ( 6 ) /min ) at ph 6 and that the rate of fluoride uptake in the outer layer of the enamel was proportional to the hydrogen ion activity .
determination of inorganic pyrophosphatase in rat odontoblast layer by a radiochemical method .
the enzyme inorganic pyrophosphatase ( ppiase , ec 3.6.1.1 ) from the odontoblastic layer of rat incisors has been studied by means of a radiochemical micromethod .
the enzyme was incubated with 32p-pyrophosphate in tris-hcl buffer at 37 degrees c .
the reaction was linear with time for at least 45 min , and the ph optimum was found to be 8.8 , independent of the amount of pyrophosphate present .
heating the enzyme at 56 degrees c inhibited the enzyme activity rapidly , mg2+ ions activated the enzyme by 15 % at an ion concentration of 4 mm , while higher concentrations were inhibitory .
ca2+ ions and po43-ions inhibited the enzyme at all concentrations .
f- ions did not affect the ppiase at concentrations below 8 mm , whereas higher concentrations had an inhibiting effect .
urea was found to inhibit the enzyme at concentrations above 1.5 m , while edta was a strong inhibitor at very low concentrations .
the characteristics of ppiase agree well with the properties of the enzyme nonspecific alkaline phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.1. ) studied earlier .
assessment of denture plaque ph in subjects with and without denture stomatitis .
to evaluate the `` resting '' ph and induced ph changes in denture plaque , soft deposits were collected from the fitting surface of the denture , pooled and suspended in water .
plaque ph was determined with microelectrode equipment before and after mouth rinsing with a sucrose solution .
a characteristic level in the `` resting '' ph of denture plaque was found in most of 12 subjects tested .
ph values below the baseline level were recorded for more than 2 h after a rinse .
the ph depressions were more pronounced in maxillary than in mandibular plaque .
further , the ph minima tended to be lower in subjects with denture stomatitis than in controls .
no clear relationship could be established between the `` resting '' ph and the concentration of candida hyphae in denture smears or palatal inflammation .
bioluminescence assay of enzymes obtained from buccal epithelium by superficial scraping .
a method is presented for the simultaneous assay of buccal enzymes by measuring reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and adenosine triphosphate with the aid of the bioluminescence of luciferase extracts .
the activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( g6pdh ) was shown earlier to be increased in homogeneous leukoplakias of the oral mucosa .
since smoking has been implicated as an etiologic factor of leukoplakia , g6pdh was measured in the normal buccal epithelium of cigarette smokers .
no difference was found in the activity of g6pdh between smokers and nonsmokers when related to the activity of pyruvate kinase , which is known to be invariable in healthy and leukoplakic oral mucosa .
a new compact kinetic luminescence analyzer is briefly described .
gastroduodenal emptying and motility .
identification of the gastroduodenal junction by potential difference measurements .
allogeneic marrow transplantation for the treatment of leukaemia .
a review .
22 hl-a antigen and mixed leukocyte culture-matched sibling bone marrow transplants were attempted in patients with acute leukaemia ( at the national cancer institute ) to define the toxicities of four different immunosuppressive regimens , the complications associated with warrow engraftment and antileukaemic effect .
73 % ( 16/22 ) were engrafted as indicated by a change to donor red blood cells ( rbc ) type , leukocyte , immunoglobulin allotype or by the speed of morrow repopulation and the occurrence of the graft versus host disease ( gvhd ) .
12 of 16 ( 75 % ) successful engrafted patients developed gvhd .
the current published results of clinical bone marrow transplantation from major centers has been reviewed and will be discussed in relationship to current clinical complications associated with bone marrow transplantation .
[ interpretation of various chemical parameters in the pollution of coastal waters ] .
[ uncertain position in the therapeutic team. symposium for nurses on `` parenteral and tube feeding '' and members ' congress of the german nurses ' association in dusseldorf ] .
current status of treatment of pneumonia .
proper treatment of pneumonia is dependent upon a correct diagnosis .
pneumonia may be due to infectious agents , allergic phenomena , or chemical causes .
treatment regimens are outlined for the various types of pneumonia -- pneumococcal , staphylococcal , fungal , and pneumonia due to gram-negative and anaerobic gram-negative bacilli , to blastomyces dermatitidis , and to the parasite pneumocystis carinii .
in discussing current concepts of treatment , several well-known methods are emphasized , as well as newer developments , knowledge of which is essential for optimal treatment of pneumonia .
[ physical work capacity of patients with bronchial asthma after treatment with bronchodilator agent , berotek ] .
[ complications of sombrevin anesthesia in minor gynecological surgery ] .
'picture frame ' fibres in a carrier of the trait for malignant hyperpyrexia .
a member of a family which was known to be susceptible to malignant hyperpyrexia , who was identified as a carrier by the presence of an elevated serum creatine-phosphokinase , has been investigated further .
muscle was examined biochemically , and the study included the sarcoplasmic atpase-activity , actinomycin , mg2+ atpase activity , atp , phosphocreatine and glucose-6-phosphate .
in addition , the calcium uptake by the sarcoplasmic reticulum was studied .
the histochemical analysis of the muscle revealed the presence of a new fibre type characterised by a dense rim of atpase activity , which gives the impression of a 'picture-frame ' .
ultramicroscopic study revealed changes in the mitochondria and areas of myofibrillar disruption with swelling of the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
the gp dilemma .
recommendations and synopsis of a student conference .
the proceedings of a conference organised by students are reported .
the present standing of the general practitioner and his need in different societies are equated and the obvious deficiencies are considered .
such themes as maldistribution , service and education are discussed .
resolutions derived from the conference are reported in full .
[ report from the national representatives of the scandinavian nurses ' federation's meeting in iceland ] .
[ association's meeting after half a year ] .
a clinical conference for inactive nurses .
gastric emptying of liquids after different vagotomies and pyloroplasty .
gastric emptying of five liquid meals which differ in their physicochemical properties have been measured in control dogs and dogs that have received a heinecke-mikulicz pyloroplasty alone , proximal gastric vagotomy without drainage , selective gastric vagotomy and pyloroplasty and truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty .
the first two phases of emptying have been computed by the method of least squares to obtain a logarithmic-linear pattern and are expressed as relative rates : the initial post-ingestion process is characterized by beta or the average relative rate of emptying in the first ten minutes , the basic or exponential rate as beta and the change in rate from the initial to basic pattern as deltabeta .
each measure of gastric emptying was statistically analyzed to determine specific differences in rates between the operations studied .
we confirmed the earlier claims that pyloroplasty alone does not change the emptying rate of liquid meals .
each measure or phase of emptying varies consistently across the operations from meal to meal tested .
initial emptying after all three vagotomies is significantly faster than control with progressive rate increases as proximal gastric vagotomy is compared with selective gastric vagotomy with pyloroplasty and with truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty , probably indicative of gastric fundal loss of accommodation to volume distention after denervation .
the basic exponential pattern of emptying is not lost after any of the operations studied .
the basic rate after proximal gastric vagotomy and selective gastric vagotomy with pyloroplasty is nearly identical , slightly delayed from the control rate and significantly slower than the more rapid rate after truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty .
possible explanations for these are discussed and imply a particular importance of the hepatic and celiac vagal fibers , sectioned only with truncal vagotomy , in the regulation of gastric emptying of liquids .
pancreatic enzyme response with an elemental diet .
elemental diets can maintain or slightly improve the nutritional status without a major stimulatory effect on the pancreas .
six dogs were maintained with a regular chow diet , switched to an elemental diet and , subsequently , returned to a chow diet .
cannulation of the pancreatic duct through a duodenal cutaneous fistula revealed the enzyme response to be decreased in a dog maintained with an elemental diet , with no or only a slight weight gain .
return to a regular diet resulted in a return of pancreatic enzyme response .
[ nurses ' drug information : therapeutic action group : benzodiazepine derivatives. 1 ] .
[ nurses ' drug information : therapeutic action group : benzodiazepine derivatives. 2 ] .
[ nurses ' drug information ; therapeutic action group : benzodiazepines. 3 ] .
[ health and nursing care's working environment should be critically examined. contribution to the discussion about working environment as an introduction to the congress ] .
molecular biology of human plasminogen .
i. physiochemical properties and microheterogeneity .
gastric fibrinolysis .
gastric juice from 15 normals , 20 patients with gastric ulcer and 14 patients with erosive haemorrhagic gastroduodenitis was investigated in respect of its activity on unheated and heated fibrin plates and its content of fdp and plasminogen or plasmin with immunochemical methods .
gastric juice from normals showed no activity on unheated and heated fibrin plates , and no fdp or plasminogen could be demonstrated .
in the patients with gastric ulcer the gastric juice showed little or no fibrinolytic activity on fibrin plates except in 2 , who had regurgitation of duodenal juice and neutral ph of the juice .
these patients had equally high activity on heated as on unheated plates and no plasmin could be demonstrated .
it was shown that this activity was not due to fibrinolysis , but to non-specific proteolytic activity ( probably trypsin ) .
the patients with erosive haemorrhage gastroduodenitis exhibited quite a different picture .
the gastric juice from these patients showed extremely high activity on fibrin plates , the activity was higher on unheated than on heated plates .
the activity was inhibited in vitro by addition of eaca and in vivo after administration of amca .
the occurence of plasmic could be demonstrated directly immunologically in the gastric juice .
by comparsion of plasmin and trypsin in various assays it could further be improved that the gastric juice in these cases contained plasminogen activator and plasmin .
the patients with erosive haemorrhagic gastroduodenitis showed no increase in fibrinolysis in the blood , but low values for plasminogen and alpha2-m , and the serum contained fdp .
these findings in the blood and gastric juice were interpreted as signs of local fibrinolysis in the stomach and duodenum .
there is reason to assume that this gastric fibrinolysis contributes substantially to the bleeding tendency .
the effect of administration of amca on fibrinolytic activity and the haemorrhage lends support to the assumption of such a mechanism .
proceedings : effects of ph on arachidonic acid induced platelet aggregation .
proceedings : variations in quantitative ristocetin platelet aggregation ( rpa ) with time after platelet rich plasma ( prp ) preparation : association with alteration in ph .
proceedings : hemophilia : modified by a post-exercise plasminogen activator .
effect of lysosomal cationic proteins from polymorphonuclear leukocytes upon the fibrinogen and fibrinolysis system .
prothrombin profragment-1 optical rotatory dispersion and circular dichroism .
[ students ' action adopted at convention ] .
acid-base parameters in the dehydrated camel .
the effect of prolonged ( 10 days ) dehydration on acid-base parameters of camel blood was examined .
the ph and pco2 levels rose significantly in the course of dehydration .
this state was comparable with compensated non-respiratory alkalosis found in other animals .
the plasma sodium , and magnesium levels rose significantly also .
the plasma oxygen and calcium levels declined significantly .
there were no significant changes in potassium and phosphate levels .
it is concluded that the changes found in acid-base status following dehydration are further evidence of water preservation mechanisms in the dehydrated camel .
[ clinical experiences with untreated homologous vein grafts in reconstruction of arteries ( author's transl ) ] .
50 transplantations of homologous vein grafts in reconstruction of arteries are reported on .
vein grafts were either transplanted immediately or used after deep freezing .
this procedure has proved to be effective in the replacement of arteries during our observation period of four years .
results of homologous vein transplants are similar to those of autologous transplants .
[ bacteria as cause of dental caries ] .
[ current interpretation of the testicular maldescention problem ] .
[ maldescensus testis in the dog ] .
experimental methanol toxicity in the primate : analysis of metabolic acidosis .
the effect of a simulated subarachnoid hemorrhage on cerebral blood flow in the monkey .
the hydrogen clearance method was used to measure local and total cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) in the rhesus monkey before and for five hours after a simulated subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) .
cbf remained stable after sah unless sah was associated with a fall in cerebral perfusion pressure .
in addition , cerebrovascular resistance did not increase after sah .
these results suggest that vasoactive agents in fresh whole blood , and the arterial spasm they produce when added to cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) , play only a limited role in the pathogenesis of ischemic encephalopathy that follows an sah .
effects of oxygen saturation and pco2 on brain uptake of glucose analogues in rabbits .
the effect of oxygen saturation and pco2 on brain uptake of glucose analogues was studied in rabbits .
using a modified oldendorf technique , 14c-labeled glucose analogues with a 3h2o reference standard were introduced into the cerebral circulation via the common carotid artery , and the radioactivity of the ipsilateral cerebral cortex was counted and expressed in terms of a brain uptake index ( bui ) .
severe hypoxia ( oxygen saturation less than or equal to 18 % ) resulted in approximately a 40 % decrease in the bui of 2-deoxy-d-glucose and a 45 % decrease in the bui of 3-0-methyl-d-glucose .
severe hypercapnia ( pco2 = 100 mm hg ) caused a 45 % decrease in the bui of both of these glucose analogues .
hypercapnia superimposed on severe hypoxia had no additional effect .
hypocapnia ( pco2 = 15 mm hg ) increased the bui of 3-0-methyl-d-glucose by 35 % of the control value , and this increase was extremely sensitive to competitive inhibition .
when bui values were plotted against ph rather than pco2 for the same experiments , there was a good correlation with the calculated linear regression .
these results are compared with previous findings on pathologically induced changes in brain uptake of glucose analogues , and the possible role of blood flow is considered in detail .
lactate and pyruvate concentrations , and acid-base balance of cerebrospinal fluid in experimentally induced intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage in dogs .
the effect of blood injected into either subarachnoid space or subcortical brain tissue upon lactate and pyruvate concentrations as well as acid-base balance of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) was studied in the anesthetized dog .
csf lactate and lactate/pyruvate ratio ( l/p ratio ) increased progressively following the intracranial injection of blood and reached the maximum level at six hours after injection .
these changes were significantly greater in animals with intracerebral hematoma than in those with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) .
an increase in csf lactate and l/p ratio in hemorrhagic csf seems to be caused by two different factors .
shed blood cells per se produce lactate and pyruvate , and blood in the subarachnoid space and intracerebral hematomas cause secondary changes in brain tissue metabolism by a probable reduction of cerebral blood flow .
therefore , an increase in csf lactate with a concomitant rise in csf l/p ratio is a useful indicator for brain tissue hypoxia , even when csf is hemorrhagic .
the association of an increase in csf lactate to a disproportionate decrease in csf hco-3 was also observed in these animals .
a study of variables affecting the quality of platelets stored at `` room temperature '' .
the effect of variables associated with the donor and with methods of collecting , processing , and storing platelets on the quality of platelets kept at ambient temperature was studied .
changes in structural integrity of platelets , decrease in ph , loss of aggregability , and kinetics in vivo of platelets tagged with 51cr were used as indicators of the tolerance of platelets to storage .
a platelet concentration of less than 2.5 x 10 ( 6 ) per cu mm , a temperature of storage less than 24 c , and continuous , gentle , agitation were found to be essential for satisfactory preservation of platelet integrity , function , and post-transfusion survival .
platelets from female donors tolerated storage less well than did platelets from male donors , possibly because the lower hematocrit of blood collection from females resulted in greater initial acidity of the concentrate .
a number of other variables analyzed appear to be of little or no consequence for successful platelet storage .
marrow grafts between canine littermates showing one-way nonstimulation in mixed leukocyte culture .
engraftment of allogeneic dog bone marrow .
resistance to allogeneic bone-marrow grafts ( ar ) was found to occur in many species , including the dog .
the i.v. administration of silica particles suppressed ar in vivo in this species .
genetic studies provide suggestive evidence for the existence of a previously unrecognized system or systems in the canine major histocompatibility complex controlling ar .
induction of tolerance to third-party donor organs in canine radiation chimeras .
dopamine-containing neurons of the substantia nigra and their terminals in the neostriatum .
tne ultrastructural and fluorescence histochemical characteristics of the mature rabbit substantia nigra and neostriatum have been reviewed as a frame of reference for the developmental study .
biochemical investigations were reported on neostriatal dopamine concentrations and the relative uptake and accumulation of 3h-dopamine by this tissue from fetal to adult stages , to provide quantitative data for correlation with the fluorexcence information .
the development of the neurons of the substantia nigra and their axons which project to the neostriatum has been presented from their appearance at day 14 of gestation to their maturation in early postnatal life .
the initial bipolar neuroblasts , which develop in the midline of the caudal mesencephalon , are fluorescent as soon as they emerge from the ependymal zone .
their fluorescent axons , which form the nigroneostriatal pathway , reach the telencephalon at day 16 of gestation and ramify extensively in the putamen by day 20 , but do not enter the caudate nucleus until several days later .
some of the early fluorescent axonal profiles in the putamen are extremely large .
electron microscopic study of theis stage suggests that the large fluorescent profiles may correspond to axonal growth cones or early synapses .
a distinct substantia nigra , pars compacta and reticulata , can be recognized by fluorescence microscopy by day 20 of gestation .
electron microscopy reveals that the young neurons are multipolar with numerous developing dendrites , some of which exhibit early synaptic junctions .
the subsequent maturaition of these cells and the neuropil is described .
the fluorescent axons of the substantia nigra grow into the putamen and caudate nucleus in a nonuniform manner forming fluorescent islands throughout the neostriatum in late fetal life .
occasionally , minute beaded fluorescent axons are found .
these profiles might correspond to some of the axons with varicosities `` en passage '' revealed by electron microscopy .
in an attempt to identify further the dopamine-containing axon , the ultratructure of adult neostriatum incubated in 5-hydroxydopamine was reported .
axonal varicosities `` en passage '' containing a dense `` tag '' in the vesicles were found .
most of the tagged boutons did not exhibit synaptic contacts .
the possible significance of these finding s as related to dopamine secretion are discussed .
discussion : metachromatic leukodystrophy , an unusual case with a subtle cerebroside sulfatase defect .
[ separation of the hormones of the adenohypophysis of rats by use of electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate ] .
a comparative study of rat adenohypophysis extract and its alcohol fractions was performed by two variants of the method of electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel : at ph 9,5 and with the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate at ph 7.2 .
with the presence of sodium dodecylsulphate four protein zones are found which in the order from the anode towards the cathode are identified as hemoglobin , somatotropin , lactotropin and albumin .
it is shown that the somatotropin zone after the extract separation at ph 9.5 is inhomogeneous and consists of somatotropin and hemoglobin .
[ properties of nad-glycohydrolase of the nuclei of the liver cells of rats ] .
certain properties of the rat liver cell nuclei nad-glycohydrolase ( ec 3.2.2.5 ) were investigated .
it is established that its highest activity is at 37 degrees with activation energy equal to 9480 cal/m and with factor q10 equal to 1.5 .
the enzyme ph optimum in 0.2 m tris acetate is equal to 6.5 and in 0.2 potassium phosphate - 7.5 .
it was shown that the enzyme manifests its strict specificity only with beta-nad , and it hardly decomposes nadp without affecting nadh , nadph and nmn .
the apparent km value of the enzyme with respect to nad is established .
isonicotinic acid hydrazide , nicotinamide and to the less extent nicotinic acid inhibit the enzymatic activity of nuclei .
edta , egta , p-cmb , mercaptoethanol do not cause any changes in the rat liver cells nuclei nadase activity .
[ some properties of `` soluble '' na+ and k+-atpase obtained from various subcellular membrane structures of the brain by use of non-ionic detergents ] .
a comparative study was carried out of some properties of `` soluble '' na+ , k+-atpase obtained from different subcellular membrane brain structures by means of non-ionic detergents of triton x-100 and digitonin .
it is established that temperature and ph-optima of `` soluble '' na+ , k+-atpase are close to these optima of the initial membrane preparations .
a certain difference is observed in the dynamics of temperature and ph-dependence of na+ , k+-atpase activity in the extracts from different subcellular structures .
the stability of the preparations in storage was investigated .
a conclusion is made that more stable enzyme extracts may be obtained by means of digitonin .
[ properties of glutamine synthetase of the brain of rats during ontogenesis ] .
when investigating activity of glutamine synthetase of the enzymatic preparations isolated from the brain of rats of 0.5 , 1 , 3 , 12 and 24-month age , no considerable differences were found in the indices of the values km to a-glutamate and vmax which are respectively equal to : km ( m-10 ( -3 ) ) =5.5 ; 3.5 ; 3.6 ; 3.9 ; 5.5 ; vmax=3.1 ; 4.5 ; 5.0 ; 5.2 mum were found .
when adding various concentrations of a-ketoglutaric acid into the incubation medium the differences are registered in the degree and character of the age changes in brain glutamine synthetase activity in comparison with this enzyme form the liver .
[ properties of nad-pyrophosphorylase of the nuclei of liver cells of chickens ] .
certain characteristics of chicken liver cells nuclei nad-pyrophosphorylase ( nmn-adenylytranspherase , ec 2.7.7.1 ) were investigated .
it was established that nad-pyrophosphorylase activity optimum ph is within interval of 7.0-7.5 ; temperature optimum - 38-39 degrees c ; factor q10 is equal to 2 .
enzyme activation energy , inactivation energy and enthalpy were calculated ; apparent km values of nad-pyrophosphorylase with respect to nmn and atp are equal to 1.62-10 ( -7 ) m and 2.61-10 ( -7 ) m , respectively .
[ biosynthesis of flavins and its regulation in the yeast pichia guilliermondii ] .
the nature of riboflavin precursors was studied in the yeast pichia guilliermondii .
by means of mutants with blocked gmp-synthetase the purine precursors of riboflavin were shown to belong to guanylic compounds .
accumulation of 2,4,5-triamino-6-oxypyrimidine , 2,5-diamino-6-oxy-4-ribitylaminopyrimidine , 2,6-dioxy-5-amino-4-ribitylaminopyrimidine ( doarap ) and 6,7-dimethyl-8-ribityllumasine occurs in the riboflavin-deficient mutants divided into five biochemical groups .
this fact evidences for identity of riboflavin precursors in the yeast p. guilliermondii and saccharomyces cerevisiae .
synthesis of doarap by the washed off cells of the mutants with the blocked lumasine synthetase is strongly inhibited by riboflavin ; cycloheximide in the absence of riboflavin has no effect on this process .
consequently , flavinogenesis in p. guilliermondii is regulated according to the type of negative feedback by means of retroinhibition mechanism .
a change in the content of flavins in the cells has no effect on synthesis of riboflavin synthetase ; at the same time iron deficiency in the cells evokes derepression of this enzyme .
incubation of the cells rich in iron with o-phenantroline or alpha , alpha'-dipyridyl also causes derepression of riboflavin synthetase which is inhibited by cycloheximide .
a deficiency of hem in the mutants which need epsilon-aminolevulinic acid does not affect the riboflavinsynthetase activity of the cells .
evidently , in p. guilliermondii a certain form of nonheminic iron might take part in regulating synthesis of riboflavin synthetase and other enzymes participating in riboflavin biosynthesis .
riboflavin overproduction is established to require formation of purines de novo .
with the absence of flavinogenesis enzymes derepression a genetic disturbance in regulation of purinic nucleotides biosynthesis results in stimulation of flavinogenesis .
the properties were studied for 680 time purified riboflavinkinase from cells of p. guilliermondii as well as for three phosphatases possessing the optimum of the activity at ph 3.5 , 5.5 and 8.6 , which are able of hydrolysing fmn .
a change in the content of flavins and iron in the cells has no effect on the activity of riboflavinkinase in this species .
evidently , the mechanisms of riboflavin and flavin nucleotides biosynthesis regulation would be different in p. guilliermondii .
[ dnases and rnases of misgurnus fossilis ovocytes ] .
the ph optima were determined for dnases and rnases of the loach eggs .
for dnases they are 5.6 and 7.6 and for rnases - 5.2 and 7.2 .
it is established that ca++ activates , and fe++ has not effect on the activity of acid and alkaline dnases , while mg++ , mn++ and especially co++ , zn++ , cd++ , cu++ have an inhibitory effect on them .
the activities of rnases is stimulated by ca++ and fe++ , and inhibited by zn++ , co++ , cd++ and cu++ .
iones mg++ and mn++ do not affect these activities .
localization of the above mentioned enzymes was studied by means of differential centrifugation of egg homogenates .
acid dnase is concentrated only in postmicrosomal supernatant liquid , its activity being inhibited in the presence of the nucleomitochondrial and microsomal fractions .
acid rnase is also localized predominantly in postmicrosomal supernatant fraction .
alkaline dnase is found to a great extent in nucleomitochondrial fraction , and alkaline rnase - in postmicrosomal one .
[ determination of optimal conditions for the electron-cytochemical detection of atpase activity in isolated nuclei ] .
the optimal conditions are selected for electron-cytochemical detection of the atpase activity in nuclei of the skeletal muscles of rabbits and nuclei of vicia faba l. meristem .
it is shown that the previous fixation of nuclei in the rabbit skeletal muscle for 10 min in a mixture of the buffer solutions of 4 % glutaric dialdehyde and 4 % neutral formalin ( 1:1 ) causes a decrease in their atpase activity by 78 % in the medium containing mg2+ and by 34 % - in the medium containing ca2+ ; in nuclei of horse bean seedlings meristem it lowers respectively by 28 and 16 % .
ions of lead in a concentration of 0.4 mm evoke a decrease in the atpase activity in the medium containing mg2+ , in nuclei of the rabbit skeletal muscles by 35 % and in nuclei of horse bean meristem by 15 % in the medium containing ca2+ .
the vaule of the residual activity is sufficient for detection of the product of atp enzymic hydrolysis reaction by activity is sufficient for detection of the product of atp enzymic hydrolysis reaction by the method of electronic cytochemistry .
an increase in the pb2+ concentration higher than 2.8 mm evokes nonenzymic hydrolysis of atp .
the atpase activity under the electron-cytochemical study is found within the range of ph 6.3-8.5 .
the product of reaction forms most intensively at ph 7.2-7.5 in the medium with both mg2+ and ca2+ .
[ drug information. metoprolol ( seloken , hassle ) ] .
characteristics of renovascular hypertension in japan .
[ catecholamines , cholinergic and serotoninergic complexes as criteria of prognosis in acute cranio-cerebral trauma ] .
in experiments on 30 animals and in observations over the course of acute closed craniocerebral trauma in 24 patients is was found that the course and prognosis of a posttraumatic period were dependent on the functional activity of the sympathoadrenal system and cholin- and serotoninergic processes .
based on the data obtained , it is concluded that the character of neurohumoral interrelations can serve as the prognostic criterion in craniocerebral traumas , whereas the information about these processes -- in selecting the appropriate therapy .
[ incarcerated gallbladder in cholecystitis ] .
among 206 examined patients with cholecystitis and similar diseases in 112 ( 65 % ) cases , as evidenced by the authors ' findings , the gallbladder proved to be non-functioning .
its escape in the biliary system was functional ( indirect ) or organic ( absolute ) .
the main causes of a direct organic escape of the gallbladder are as follows : destructive changes in its walls , strictures , strangulated gall stones , shrinkage or hydropsy .
the reliable preoperative diagnosis of an escaped gallbladder by means of accelerated chromoduodenal catheterization , intravenous ( infusion-drip ) or associated ( intravenous-peroral ) cholecystocholangiography , correlated with the anamnesis data and clinical signs , rather speaks in favour of cholecystectomy on absolute indications .
[ determination of the proteolytic activity of beef liver by means of natural substrates labed with 125 i ] .
there is a description of the determination of the enzymatic activity of acid proteinases : the method is based on the use of 125j-labelled natural protein substrates .
labelled albumin 125j , globulin 125j , and insulin 125j were tested for the determination of activities .
all the substrates were hydrolyzed with the enzymes of the supernatant fraction ( 106 000 g ) of beff liver homogenate in the zone of acid ph .
optimum comditions of enzymatic reaction were tested , the dependence of reaction on the concentration of the enzyme , on time , and on temperature was determined , ph optimum was ascertained for individual substrates , and ph stability was determined .
it follows from the results that the method is suitable for the determination of the enzymatic activity of proteinases of the cathepsin character .
significance of serum pepsinogen and abomasal ph levels in a field infection of o circumcincta in lambs .
serum pepsinogen estimations from serially bled lambs grazing on pasture from spring to autumn showed correlations with the availability of ostertagia larvae on pasture , with faecal egg counts of o circumcincta , and with ostertagia worm counts in similar lambs slaughtered fort-nightly from the same pasture .
in the slaughtered lambs correlations were recorded between worm count , serum pepsinogen level and abomasal ph .
the value of serum pepsinogen estimations as a diagnostic test is discussed with reference to these findings .
[ cultivation of trichomonas gallinarum and trichomonas tenax on a trimed medium ] .
studied was the possibility to isolate and culture tr. gallinarum and tr. tenax on a medium trimed , proposed by the authors for the isolation and cultivation of tr. vaginalis .
the growth and development of the two trichomonas species were followed up at various temperatures -- 38 degrees , 36 degrees , and 32 degrees c , in order to establish the most appropriate temperature for continuous cultivation at longer intervals of reseeding as well as the temperature optimum for the fast deposition of great amounts of biomass .
it was found that the trimed medium is suitable for the isolation and cultivation of tr. gallinarum and tr. tenax .
temperatures of 38 degrees and 36 degrees contribute to the accumulation of greater amounts of biomass , while at 32 degrees c the growth of these protozoa is delayed and reseeding is to be carried out at greater intervals .
pneumococcal bacteriophages .
[ 44th internal medicine meeting in boboty-terchova -- april 18 , 1975 on headache ] .
[ certain aspects of regulation of cerebral blood flow ] .
[ gasometric studies in pneumonia in newborn infants ] .
amylase of the thermophilic actinomycete thermomonospora vulgaris .
alpha-amylase of the thermophilic actinomycete thermomonospora vulgaris was partially purified .
maximal enzyme activity was obtained at 60degreec and ph 6.0 .
km value was l.4 % .
the effect of some metal salts on enzyme activity was studied .
enzyme activity was inhibited by by kcn , edta , and iodoacetate .
inhibition by edta was completely nullified by cacl2 , but the inhibition by iodoacetate was not overcome by 2-mercaptoethanol .
exposure of the enzyme to ph 7.0 and 9.0 for 2 hr. did not affect the enzyme , but exposure to ph 3.0 for few minutes completely inactivated the enzyme .
exposure of the enzyme to 60degreec resulted in an appreciable inactivation and exposure to 80degreec completely inactivated the enzyme .
addition of cacl2 , 2-mercaptoethanol , or enzyme substrate the 60degreec exposed enzyme .
however , bovine serym albumin had a protective effect when the enzyme was exposed to 60degreec but not to 80degreec .
the enzyme was stable in the presence of 8 m urea .
[ properties of the nadp+-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases of acinetobacter calcoaceticus ] .
[ pyridine nucleotide-independent oxidation of long chain aliphatic alcohols by an enzyme of acinetobacter calcoaceticus ] .
[ chronic heart diseases. 6th diagnostic-therapeutic discourse of the zfa in freudenstadt ] .
[ virus diseases of the skin and genital organs. 6th diagnostic-therapeutic discourse of the zfa in freudenstadt 1975 ] .
[ preparation of hyperthyreotic patients for surgery ] .
[ incidence and clinical course of vaccination complications ] .
[ experimental ulcer ] .
[ the effect of therapeutic gentamycin doses on the enzyme secretion in urine ] .
8 patients with chronic pyelonephritis were given gentamycin intramuscularly injected in individual dosage during 8-10 days .
here the behaviour of the excretion of protein , alanine aminopeptidase alkaline phosphatase , alpha-glucosidase , gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and lysozyme with the urine was tested .
with the exception of the lysozymuria , which increased only in patients with chronic renal insufficiency , regularly a hyperenzymuria developed .
most distinctly the excretion of the alanine aminopeptidase increased .
after initial decrease the excretion of total protein transiently increased after completion of the gentamycin therapy .
all the deviations were reversible .
from the increased excretion of enzymes may not be concluded to a nephrotoxicity of gentamycin .
acetylcholinesterase in atopic skin in relation to the b blockade model of atopy .
[ alkaline phosphatases in human feces , intestinal mucosa and bile , and the occurrence of 5'-nucleotidase in feces ( author's transl ) ] .
alkaline phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.1 ) in extracts of human feces resembles alkaline phosphatase in extracts of duodenal mucosa , except for its electrophoretic mobility in starch gel .
it is very probable that the normal feces alkaline phosphatase derives from intestinal mucosa .
gall bladder alkaline phosphatase , which is markedly different , has not been found in normal feces .
some patients with acute viral hepatitis or protozoasis excrete an alkaline phosphatase which resembles gall bladder alkaline phosphatase and has the characteristics of 5'-nucleotidase ( ec 3.1.3.5 ) .
the appearance of this enzyme correlates with low total alkaline phosphatase activity of the excreta .
simultaneous determination of 5'-nucleotidase and alkaline phosphatase activities in serum .
a simple method is described for the simultaneous determination of alkaline phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.1 ) and 5'-nucleotidase ( ec 3.1.3.5 ) in serum .
the method is based on the determination of inorganic phosphorus released by the action of the two enzymes on adenosine-5'-monophosphate at ph 9.5 ( 200 mmol/l tris-buffer ) in the presence and absence of l-cysteine .
this amino acid at a concentration of 2 -- 10 mmol/l was found to be a specific inhibitor for alkaline phosphatase but with no effect on 5'-nucleotidase activity .
absorption of short and medium chain fatty acids in the jejunum of the rat .
the uptake of the shortest six fatty acids ( acetic to octanoic ) was studied in vitro , using everted segments of rat jejunum .
the marked influence of medium-ph and fatty acid chain-length suggests that non-ionic diffusion through the lipoid membrane is quantitatively the most important way of transport , but ionic diffusion through the membrane as well as transport through hydrophilic pores also seem to play a role .
though fatt acids evidently are accumulated in the tissue-fluid , and saturation kinetics , competitive inhibition and sodium- as well as energy-dependence apparently are observed , the transport mechanism is assumed to involve solely passive diffusion , - the concept of a carrier-mediated transport for short and medium chain fatty acids seems improbable .
carcinogenic n-nitro-dimethylamine from the reaction of the analgesic amidopyrine and nitrite extracted from foodstuffs .
the reaction of the analgesic amidopyrine ( 100 mg ) with nitrite extracted from cured meats and from spinach in varying degrees of spoilage was studied .
unde physiological conditions the carcinogenic dimethylnitrosamine was formed at milligram levels at nitrite concentrations as low as 4 mg ( in 175 ml extracted from 100 g boiled ham ) .
the rate of decrease in concentration in the human stomach after ingestion of amidopyrine and of nitrite contained in boiled ham or in a broth from boiled ham was also measured .
[ proceedings : intracellular ph and co2-binding curve of the myocardium in normo and hyperthermia in rats ] .
[ a modern quick method for the acidity determination of the gastric juice ( pentagastrin test ) ] .
the author describes a very rapid and accurate method of determining the acidity of gastric juice which is based on recent findings .
starting from the electrometrically determined ph value and the volume of the gastric juice , the actual hydrogenion concentration may be read from a table .
the laboratory work is considerably simplified by this method .
histochemical observations on the occurrence of glycolytic and pentose phosphate cycle enzymes in the hepatopancreas and their possible relation to eyestalk factor ( s ) in the crab scylla serrata ( forskal ) .
histochemical studies were carried out on some of the glycolytic enzymes viz. phosphorylase , aldose , alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase ( alpha-gpdh ) and lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) and a key enzyme of the pentose phosphatase cycle , glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( g-6-pdh ) , in the hepatopancreas of scylla serrata ( forskal ) .
1. weak activities of phosphorylase and aldolase and strong-activities of alpha-gpdh and ldh were noticed mainly in the brush border of the tubules and r-cell cytoplasm .
a trace activity of g-6-pdh was noticed in the brush border .
2. bilateral eyestalk removal results in inhibition of both phosphorylase and aldolase .
however , enhanced activities of alpha-gpdh and ldh were noticeable 4 h after the operation .
the g-6-pdh activity remained unaltered till 24 h. 3 .
injection of eyestalk extract into both intact and destalked crabs activated all the enzymes .
[ physiologic mechanisms of goal-directed movements ] .
[ different influence of the semicastration and of unilateral cryptorchism on the controlateral testis ] .
[ expert opinion on the tooth-preserving properties of chewing gum y ] .
effect of sodium chloride on the staphylococcal growth in milk .
seed pelleting with systemic insecticide ( aldicarb ) for the control of pests of mungo ( phaseolus aureus l. ) .
growth of staphylococcus aureus , experimentally inoculated in damietta cheese .
[ influence of the massive transfusion of cold and warmed preserved blood on the oxygen-transport function of the blood ] .
[ acid-base equilibrium during physiological pregnancy ] .
authors applied blood-gas analysis in 30 healthy gravid women on 3,3 occassions making out 90 cases altogether by blood samples taken from the pulp of the finger capillaries .
as a control 27 healthy non-gravid women were examined for comparative analysis .
in 10 cases between the 16. and 28. week the results of samples taken from the arteria femoralis and the pulp were evaluated .
it has been found that in the gravidity period of the 16. and 28. week respiratory alcalosis does not appear .
no metabolic changes have been found during the whole period of pregnancy .
the parallel examination of blood samples taken from the arteria femoralis and the pulp have proved that it is sufficient and reliable to take blood-gas analysis on the material gained from the pulp capillary only .
a special importance is attached to keeping to exact methodical prescriptions .
[ the cathode bound group antigen of dysentery-provoking escherichieae ( author's transl ) ] .
antigens from disrupted cells of dysentery-provoking and of non-enteropathogenic escherichieae were submitted to immunoelectrophoresis on cellulose acetate stripes at ph 8.0 .
among 6 immune sera produced for this purpose by immunizing rabbits against desintegrated dysentery bacteria , only one contained a precipitine reacting with an antigen similar to the `` generic antigen '' of belaya .
this - at ph 8.0 - cathode-bound group antigen ( kga ) could not only be found in virulent but also in 5 attenuated cultures and in 5 from 6 avirulent strains of several dysentery types .
only the - apathogenic - type culture 1111/55 of dysentery-provoking e. coli o 136 showed no kga-reaction .
some sources of methodical errors responsible for false outcomes of immunopherogrammes have been discussed .
[ role of ph of the cerebrospinal fluid in the action of a vasodilator agent , no-shpa , on cerebral blood flow ] .
[ isolation of the individual structural elements of bacteria of the genus bordetella and a study of their properties. i. the formation of mureinoplasts and true protoplasts from b. pertussis ] .
b. pertussis suspension was tested by de voe et al. method ( 1970 ) and its modification with the solutions of a definite ionic composition and a lysozyme .
the best results were obtained by the following modification elaborated by the authors .
the microbes were grown on the casein-carbon agar for 36 hours and were washed with chilled 0.5 m nacl .
the suspension was washed 4 times with the same solution and then the precipitate was suspended in saccharose solution ( 0.5 m ) .
in 2 hours the saccharose was replaced by a solution of salts with lysozyme .
after a 2-hour incubation at 35 degrees c the substance was centrifugated for 20 minutes and the precipitate suspended in the tris-buffer at ph 7.8 .
the following changes were observed : after the washing and incubation with saccharose there was seen a strong stretching and separation of the cell wall ( cw ) from the cytoplasmic membrane ( cpm ) ; cells without the cw were rarely revealed ; 2 ) after the lysozyme treatment there were many cells of spherical shape ( phasic-contrast microscopy ) without any cw , limited by the cpm only .
morphologically they were no different from the true protoplasts of the gram-positive bacteria .
the chemical analysis also confirmed a possibility of obtaining the true protoplasts of the gram-negative bacteria .
[ ph stability of sugar media in the process of determining shigella sonnei biotypes ] .
[ sympathico-adrenal system activity in a primary immune response ] .
experiments were carried out on linear mice immunized with sheep erythrocytes ; it was found that the primary immune respose developed against the background of significant changes in the state of the sympathico-adrenal system , whose activity was determined by the dynamics of catecholamines in the blood and in the tissues of a number of organs , including the thymus , the spleen and the lymph nodes .
by comparing the value of specific and neurohumoral indices it was revealed that the neurohumoral shifts preceded the maximal development of the immune response .
on the example of studying the catecholamine dynamics the opinion on a close association between the state of the regulatory mechanisms and the effector formations responsible for the formation of specific immunological reactions was confirmed .
it is suggested that a full-value immunological response developed on condition of activation of the sympathico-adrenal system .
[ covalent binding of peroxidase to ch- and ah-sepharose 4 b ] .
the properties of peroxidase insolubilized by covalent binding to ch- and ah-sepharose 4 b in the presence of 1-ethyl-3- ( 3-dimethylaminopropyl ) carbodiimide ( edc ) are described .
ch-sepharose 4 b bound peroxidase yields an enzyme preparation with a residual specific activity of 60.6 % .
when bound to ah-sepharose 4 b , the residual specific activity is to 78 % .
the reasons of these differences in the catalytic activity of the two insolubilized enzyme preparations are discussed .
by covalent binding on ch- and ah-sepharose 4 b , peroxidase exibits no changes in its ph optimum ; it virtually keeps the same activity after being used ten times .
insolubilized peroxidase preparations , dried and reimbibed after being stored for 6 weeks at room temperature still display 50 % of the initial specific activity of the insolubilized enzyme .
stored in acetate buffer , the enzyme preparations maintain their activity during all this interval .
aerobacter aerogenes prl-r3 urease .
purification and properties .
a method for the preparation of a 150-fold purified and homogenous a. aerogenes urease is reported .
the enzyme exhibited two ph optima at ph 7.0 and 7.5 in triethanolamine and phosphate buffer , respectively .
the affinity of the enzyme toward its substrate increased with the increase of ph .
no effect of the ph was observed on the measured temperature coefficient ( q10 ) .
there was no discontinuity in the arrhenius plots at ph 5.4 and 7.5 but an upward discontinuity at ph 6.15 and 8.7 with transition temperature at 30 degrees c .
also , the calculated activation energies are greatly affected by the ph of the enzyme reaction mixture .
further characterization of the association of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase with reticulocyte membranes .
1. the behaviour and properties of membrane-bound gapdh of rabbit reticulocytes were investigated .
2. the bound gapdh is more resistant to inactivation by kcl than the soluble enzyme ( allotopy ) .
3. the bound enzyme is released by electrolytes .
this effect does not only depend on the ionic strength but additionally on the kind of ions , ph-value and protein concentration .
4. a comparison of the releasing effect of nad analogues shows the necessity of the 5'-amp moiety in the structure of the effector .
5. the represented results demonstrate the specifity of the gapdh-membrane binding in rabbit reticulocytes .
[ effect of the vagus nerve on isolated rabbit atria in ganglionic blockade due to hexamethonium ] .
by quantitative stimulation of the vagus nerves of isolated rabbit atria frequency-response relations were obtained for both the electrotropic effect ( reduction of the area of the monophasic action potential ) and the inotropic response .
an addition of hexamethonium in a final concentration of 10 ( -5 ) g/ml resulted in a diminution of vagal effectivity in the range of lower and medium frequencies of stimulation , and was connected with a shift of the frequency-response characteristic to the right .
at higher frequencies vagal effectivity was increased .
in contrast to the inhibitory effect of hexamethonium the facilitating action is irreversible .
by raising the concentration up to 4-10 ( -5 ) g/ml the vagal effects were reduced to a large extent , and the frequency dependence of the response was abolished at medium frequencies .
in the range of 20 sec ( -1 ) to 100 sec ( -1 ) this dependence was re-established and may be considered as a part of a normal frequency-response relation extremely shifted to the right .
the time courses of both types of effect are characterized by a steep rise and a decay of the response during the stimulation period .
a mathematical handling of the frequency-response characteristics provides quantitative evidence for the extent of the hexamethonium blockade of vagal ganglion cells in the atria ; furthermore it leads to the conception of these cells to act as a distributing system for a homogeneous innervation by a widespread divergency of postganglionic fibres .
chemical relaxation studies on the system liver alcohol dehydrogenase , nadh and imidazole .
several years ago , theorell and czerlinski conducted experiments on the system of horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase , reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and imidazole , using the first version of the temperature jump apparatus with detection of changes in fluorescence .
these early experiments were repeated with improved instrumentation and confirmed the early experiments in general terms .
however , the improved detection system allowed to measure a slight concentration dependence of the relaxation time of around 3 ms .
furthermore , the chemical relaxation time was smaller than the one determined earlier ( by factor 2 ) .
the data were evaluated much more rigorously than before , allowing an appropriate interpretation of the results .
the observed relaxation time is largely due to rate constants in an interconversion of ternary complexes , which are faster than three ( of the four ) dissociation rate constants , determined previously by theorell and mckinley-mckee.1,2 this fact contributed to earlier difficulties of finding any concentration dependence .
however , the binding of imidazole to the binary enzyme-coenzyme complex can be made to couple kinetically into the interconversion rate of the two ternary complexes .
the observed signal derives largely from the ternary complex ( es ) .
a substantial fluorescence signal change is associated with the observed relaxation process , suggesting a relocation of the imidazole in reference to the nicotinamide moiety of the bound coenzyme .
nine models are considered with two types of coupling of pre-equilibria ( none-all ) .
quantitative evaluations favor the model with two ternary complexes connected by an interconversion outside the four-step ( bimolecular ) cycle .
the ternary complex outside the cycle has much higher fluorescence yield than the one inside .
the interconversion equilibrium is near unity for imidazole .
if it would be shifted very much to the side of the `` dead-end '' complex ( as in isobutyramide ? ! ) , stimulating action could not take place .
preliminary experience in the treatment of schizophrenia with pipothiazine and its derivatives .
comparative study of virological infections in asthmatic and nonasthmatic children .
the author shows complex analyses : clinical , laboratory , x-rays , bronchoscopical , bronchographical and measuring lung function tests as well as the serological examinations in blood serum of both groups of asthmatic and nonasthmatic children with virological infection .
the calculation of statistically significant differences between the various diagnostical results of both groups has confirmed that in asthmatic children virological infection of the respiratory tract , pathological findings in x-ray and lung function tests , bronchiectasis and secondary bacteriological invasion occurs statistically significantly more often than in nonasthmatic children .
acute otitis media .
a clinical bacteriological and serological study of children with frequent episodes of acute otitis media .
a series of episodes of acute otitis media was studied with reference to bacterial findings and specific serological responses in 48 children with histories of frequent episodes before .
d. pneumoniae and h. influenzae were the most frequently isolated pathogens .
re-isolations after therapy were often made in episodes with slow healing or therapeutic failure .
most children harboured pathogens in nasopharynx even when they had no signs of respiratory tract infections .
homologous relapses were seen only in few cases and never with pneumococcus type 3 and only once with h. influenzae type b .
specific serological responses were demonstrable generally in children over 2 years of age .
d. pneumococcus type 3 and h. influenzae type b generally provoked antibody response .
no levels indicating immunoglobulin deficiencies could be found in the children .
multiple forms of staphylococcal alpha-toxin .
a group of proteins was readily extracted at neutrality from trichloroacetic acid precipitates of staphylococcal culture filtrate supernatants , while alpha-toxin was dissolved and activated by treating the precipitate with 8 m urea , with acidic buffers or by heating to 90-100 degrees c at neutrality .
heat activation of the precipitate produced a relatively pure alpha-toxin with a molecular weight of 39,000 .
alpha-toxin was eluted together with three other proteins on hydroxyl apatite chromatography , and evidence was obtained for an association between the four proteins .
on isoelectric focusing a haemolytic fraction was obtained at ph 6.2 , probably due to acid activation of the precipitate formed at the cathodic end of the column .
the alpha-haemolytic fractions with pi's of 7.4 and 8.6 were shown to consist of alpha-toxin only when analyzed by acrylamide electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate .
the haemolytic component with a pi of 9.2 contained two additional components of molecular weights of 27,500 and 18,000 .
chromatography of this material on sephadex g-200 showed that alpha-toxin and the two proteins appeared as a high molecular complex .
binding of digitoxin to human serum albumin : influence of ionic strength and ionic medium on the digitoxin-albumin complex formation .
dibenzepine and its metabolites in blood , muscle , liver , vitreous body and urine from fatal poisoning .
gas chromatography and electron capture detection of benzophenones .
part xi .
applications in the oxidation of gem-diphenylmethane substituted compounds by barium peroxide .
atp analogs .
acetylcholinesterase .
binding energy , specificity , and enzymic catalysis : the circe effect .
biochemical function and homeostasis : the payoff of the genetic program .
direct evidence of heterolysis of gorgonian target cells .
immunoincompatibility reactions in corals ( coelenterata ) .
allogeneic distinction in botryllus primigenus and in other colonial ascidians .
specific rejection of integumentary allografts by the sea star dermasterias imbricata .
use of the gvh reaction to investigate the regulation of the humoral immune response .
endosymbiosis and cellular tolerance in the hawaiian soft coral sarcothelia edmondsoni verrill .
the relationship between the soft coral sarcothelia edmondsoni verrill and its symbiotic algae is considered as an early instance of cellular tolerance which can be disturbed by a variety of adverse conditions .
the algal cells lie in vesicles deep within the endodermal cells of the host and are not subject to digestion .
their expulsion appears to be a reverse translocation to the distal end of the host cell and escape by a form of reversed phagocytosis resembling secretion .
the cellular mechanisms involved are not clear .
hard tissue tumors of scleractinian corals .
sex as a factor in metabolism , toxicity , and efficacy of pharmacodynamic and chemotherapeutic agents .
effect of amphetamine-type psychostimulants on brain metabolism .
electrophysiology and pharmacology of cardiac arrhythmias .
ix .
cardiac electrophysiologic effects of beta adrenergic receptro stimulation and blockade .
part c .
frustration .
dedication 1975 ... it almost was n't .
epidemiologic investigations of the 1969 epidemic of venezuelan encephalitis in ecuador .
an epizoodemic of venezuelan equine encephalitis ( vee ) , subtype i variant b , occurred in ecuador during the rainy and hot season of 1969 .
in this paper , a general description of the epidemic is given and virus isolations from humans are reported .
a serologic survey was performed in order to determine the extension of the epidemic along the coastal zone of the country .
it is not clear whether the higher antibody rate in older people was because they were at greater risk of infection or was the result of an accumulated immunity with time .
the latter could be an indication of endemic virus activity , not yet proven for the vee ib virus variant .
mosquito surveillance and attempted control by aerial spraying were carried out .
congenital malformations of the central nervous system produced by narcotic analgesics in the hamster .
maternal dose -- fetal teratogenic response data were obtained for a variety of narcotic and related compounds by single subcutaneous injections of the drugs into pregnant hamsters during the critical periods of central nervous system organogenesis .
the number of abnormal fetuses from females injected with diacetylmorphine ( heroin ) , thebaine , phenazocine , pentazocine , propoxyphene , and methadone increased as the maternal dose of the compounds was increased .
by contrast , morphine , hydromorphone , and meperidine produced an increase in the number ( per cent ) of fetal anomalies only up to a certain maternal dose level .
further increases in maternal dose levels did not produce additional fetal anomalies .
comparative studies of single and multiple maternal doses indicated that diacetylmorphine ( heroin ) and methadone produced a four- to sixfold increase in fetal anomalies with repetitive doses whereas the percentage of malformed fetuses remained the same with hydromorphone ( dilaudid ) .
the narcotic antagonists nalorphine , naloxone , levallophan , and cyclazocine blocked the teratogenic effects of both single and multiple doses of the narcotics .
evaluation of a non-professional visual screening method .
a screening method designed for administration by lay personnel is evaluated and compared to modified clinical technique screening results for a screening of 1600 elementary school children .
ionic requirements of proximal tubular sodium transport .
ii .
hydrogen ion .
simultaneous perfusion to proximal convoluted tubules and peritubular capillaries was used to study the effects of different perfusion fluids on sodium reabsorption and hydrogen secretion , which was calculated as bicarbonate reabsorption and titratable acid .
results show that sodium reabsorption was not tightly coupled to hydrogen secretion .
bicarbonate stimulates both sodium reabsorption and hydrogen secretion , but tris stimulates only sodium reabsorption .
imposing an adverse chloride gradient across the proximal tubule ( c1- peritubular greater than c1- luminal ) decreased sodium reabsorption but did not diminish hydrogen secretion .
diamox inhibited both net sodium and hydrogen transport .
it is concluded that there is not firm linkage between sodium reabsorption and hydrogen secretion and that bicarbonate probably stimulates sodium transport by a number of mechanisms , including an effect on the sodium transport unrelated to its ability to increase hydrogen ion secretion .
ecs , intracellular ph , and electrolytes of cardiac and skeletal muscle .
the extracellular space ( ecs ) of muscle from each ventricle of the heart ( rv and lv ) , the atria , diaphragm , and quadriceps was estimated in the anesthetized rabbit from the distribution volumes of [ 14c ] insulin , [ 14c ] sucrose , [ 51cr ] edta , and c1 -- .
whole-tissue electrolytes were measured and intracellular electrolytes calculated .
the ecs of the tissues varied , increasing in the order quadriceps less than lv less than rv less than atria .
the volume of distribution of [ 14c ] inulin was always less than that of either [ 14c ] sucrose or [ 51cr ] edta which agreed closely , whereas that of c1 -- was always greater .
there was no difference in intracellular k+ in muscle from each of the cardiac chambers , whereas intracellular na+ and c1 -- varied , increasing in the order quadriceps less than lv less than rv less than atria .
intracellular ph , measured with [ 14c ] dmo did not differ in any of the tissues studied .
it is concluded that , in vivo , the estimated ecs incardiac muscle is lower than that reported in vitro , that [ 51cr ] edta is a satisfactory ecs marker , and that differences in intracellular na+ and c1 -- but not k+ or ph exist between muscle from the cardiac chambers .
intracellular ph and k+ of cardiac and skeletal muscle in acidosis and alkalosis .
the effects of a metabolic and respiratory acidosis and alkalosis on intracellular ph ( phi ) and k+ have been compared in cardiac and skeletal muscle from the anesthetized rabbit .
the extracellular space and phi were calculated from the distribution volumes of [ 51cr ] edta and [ 14c ] dmo , respectively .
when phe was varied by altering pco2 , the slope of the line relating phi to the extracellular ph ( phe ) was greater ( p less than 0.05 -- 0.001 ) than that obtained during metabolic changes of phe in right and left ventricles , atria , diaphragm , and quadriceps .
during metabolic acidosis and alkalosis , the slope of phi/phe line did not vary between tissues .
during respiratory acidosis , there was no difference in slope between cardiac tissues , but it was less in left ventricle than quadriceps ( p less than 0.001 ) .
in left ventricle intracellular k+ increased in a metabolic ( p less than 0.05 ) or respiratory acidosis ( p less than 0.02 ) , whereas in diaphragm it decreased ( p less than 0.02 ) .
intracellular k+ correlated with phe and phe-phi .
changes in phi but not intracellular k+ could explain known differences in myocardial function in respiratory and metabolic acidosis .
effects of autonomic neurohumors on transmembrane potentials of atrial plateau fibers .
isolated canine atrial plateau fibers were treated with acetylcholine or norepinephrine to note the effects on the transmembrane potential .
acetylcholine , 1.0 or 2.0 mug/ml , consistently reduced the slope of inherent phase 4 depolarization .
increases in maximum diastolic potential and rising velocity occurred along with a decrease in overshoot .
the plateau phase disappeared .
pretreatment with atropine , 1.0 mug/ml , prevented these responses , and alone this drug had no discernible effect .
norepinephrine consistently increased the slope of phase 4 depolarization .
frequently plateau fibers generated action potentials by the normal pacemaker mechanism .
`` arrhythmias '' characterized by spontaneous excitations were induced in 92 % of the norepinephrine experiments .
norepinephrine also enhanced the plateau phase of the action potential and decreased the rising velocity and overshoot .
racemic propranolol , 1.0 mug/ml , blocked all the above effects including arrhythmias .
dextropropranolol , 1.0 mug/ml , did not block effects produced by norepinephrine .
acetylcholine , applied to fibers under treatment with norepinephrine , reduced the slope of norepinephrine-induced phase 4 depolarization and terminated induced arrhythmias .
interstitial fluid pressure and alkaline gastric secretion .
the interstitial fluid pressure of the submucosa of the gastric fundus was monitored by means of guyton's capsules in dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital .
the intracapsular pressure ( icp ) was measured during secretion produced by : a ) hypertonic solutions placed inside the stomach ; b ) arterial hypertension ( 200 mmhg ) applied during intra-arterial infusion of histamine , and c ) intra-arterial infusion of acetylcholine .
the first procedure did not modify the icp .
on the other hand , whenever interstitial fluid appeared in the gastric lumen during hypertension plus histamine , the mean icp increased , mostly due to augmented capillary filtration .
the hydraulic coefficient measured in these experiments was at least 4 orders of magnitude larger than the respective osmotic coefficient .
the action of acetylcholine was complex : large doses enlarged the net capillary filtration , but small doses increased the mean icp by muscle stimulation only .
contraction of the muscularis mucosae might be the most important mechanism underlying bulk flow of interstitial fluid in physiological conditions .
it is concluded that hydraulic gradients across the epithelium might account for the `` secretion '' of `` alkaline '' juice .
overview : maintenance therapy in psychiatry : i. schizophrenia .
hospital psychiatry has evolved from long-term `` treatment '' programs that were primarily custodial to the successful pharmacological treatment of acute psychotic episodes .
unfortunately , many patients still return to the hospital with relapses .
this so-called revolving door syndrome draws attention to the critical importance of preventing as well as treating acute episodes .
in the first part of this overview , the author reviews the clinical literature on prophylactic treatment of schizophrenia with maintenance antipsychotic drugs .
the second part will review the literature on prophylactic treatment of affective disorders with lithium and tricyclics .
in the opinion of the author these drugs provide the potential for truly preventive psychiatry .
inpatient and outpatient patterns of psychotropic drug prescribing by nonpsychiatrist physicians .
the authors found that among 228 general hospital patients , minor tranquilizers were prescribed most often and with the least justification and that major tranquilizers were prescribed sparingly and by and large judiciously .
antidepressants were given less often than would be justified by the incidence of depressive illness among these patients .
nonrecognition of depression in patients with somatic complaints and autonomic signs of depression contributed to this lack of treatment .
letter : more on the treatment of delusional depressed patients .
letter : energizing effects of piperacetazine .
toward a national health policy -- values in conflict .
eastern equine encephalomyelitis in upstate new york 1972-1974 .
[ metabolic acidosis as a side-effect of methoxyflurane anesthesia ( author's transl ) ] .
in 14 patients undergoing surgery with methoxyflurane anaesthesia the development of metabolic acidosis was observed .
as mechanisms causing such acidosis regional ischaemia and inhibition of lactic acid metabolism in the liver by breakdown products of methoxyflurane are discussed .
purification of flavin-adenine dinucleotide and coenzyme a on p-acetoxymercurianiline -- agarose columns .
a problem encountered in a study of the effects of lanthanide ions on enzyme-catalyzed reactions .
an accurate method for estimating 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate in animal tissues with the use of acid extraction .
determination of rhodanese activity using a ph-stat apparatus .
separation of low molecular weight rna by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
a spectrophotometric assay for trans-cinnamic acid 4-hydroxylase activity .
assay of proteolytic enzyme with a leucine-selective electrode .
the polarographic determination of some thiazide diuretics in compound tablets .
the electrochemical determination of vitamin a .
part ii .
further voltammetric determination of vitamin a and initial work on the determination of vitamin d in the presence of vitamin a .
protective effect of hypothermia in cerebral oxygen deficiency caused by arterial hypoxia .
to study the cerebral protective effects of hypothermia in arterial hypoxia , anesthetized ( 70 % n2o ) , mechanically ventilated rats were cooled to a body temperature of 27 c .
hypoxia was induced by decreasing the oxygen content in the inspired gas mixture either to 6-7 per cent or to 2.5-3 per cent .
this reduced mean pao2 to about 25 and 11-12 torr , respectively .
at pao2 torr , there was no change in cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) , cerebrla oxygen consumption ( cmro2 ) , or labile tissue metabolites .
the absence of signs of cerebral hypoxia could be attributed to an effect of temperature and ph on the hemoglobin-oxygen dissociation curve .
thus , at 27 c with a pao2 of 25 torr the total oxygen content ( to2 ) of arterial blood remained greater than 15 ml ( 100 ml ) -1 , about three times the value obtained at this po2 in normothermic rats .
at pao2 11-12 torr , arterial to2 was reduced to about 5 ml ( 100 ml ) ( -1 ) .
the hypoxia induced no change in cmro2 , a threefold increase in cbf , a moderate lactacidosis in the tissue , and a small decrease in phosphocreatine content , but no change in atp , adp , or amp .
these changes are less marked than those occurring at the same arterial to2 in normothermic rats .
it is concluded that hypothermia exerts a pronounced protective effect on the brain in hypoxic hypoxia , and that two mechanisms are involved .
first , since hypothermia shifts the oxyhemoglobin-dissociation curve towards the left , and prevents or minimizes a rightward shift due to acidosis , it maintains a high to2 in arterial blood at a given pao2 .
second , by reducing cmro2 , and thereby presumably also cellular energy requirements , hypothermia exerts a protective effect at the cellular level .
hazards of anesthesia and operation in maple-syrup-urine disease .
letter : fluroxene concentration in the perfusate .
characterization of a caprine herpesvirus .
a virus , which was isolated from kids ( capra hircus ) affected with a relatively severe generalized infection , was found to contain dna and to have a buoyant density of 1.2820 g/cm3 .
the virus was sensitive to the action of lipid solvents and trypsin and was rapidly inactivated at ph 3.0 and at temperatures of 50 and 56 c .
the virion , an icosahedron consisting of a nucleoid surrounded by a double membrane , measured approximately 135 nm in diameter .
on the basis of its chemical and physical properties , the virus is considered a herpesvirus .
transfer of drugs across the ruminal wall in goats .
the rates at which pentobarbital , salicylate , antipyrine , and quinine were transferred from the rumen of intact , conscious goats were measured .
the rates at which the same drugs diffused from the blood plasma ( under conditions of constant drug concentration ) into the ruminal solution were also evaluated .
these compounds were absorbed by simple diffusion , and the rates of transfer were a function of ph of the intraruminal solution .
the diffusion of drugs from plasma into the reticulorumen allowed steady-state distributions to be established in some goats .
the theoretical and observed steady-state distributions were compared .
there were good correlations for pentobarbital and antipyrine , but not for salicylate and quinine .
these findings confirm in vivo the general principles of drug transfer across ruminal epithelium that were derived from previous studies conducted in vitro .
preservation of hypoxic pulmonary pressor response in canine pneumococcal pneumonia .
to determine the role of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in pneumococcal pneumonia , hemodynamic measurements were made in 16 dogs before , and within 36 hours after , intrapulmonary administration of type iii pneumococcus .
ten dogs with one lobe or more of pneumonia increased their pulmonary vascular resistances and slightly decreased their arterial o2 tensions .
hypoxia increased and hyperoxia decreased their pulmonary vascular resistances .
during o2 breathing , arterial po2 was less during than before the pneumonia and increased when pulmonary perfusion was diverted away from the diseased lung .
in 2 dogs breathing air , forcing the cardiac output through the diseased lung caused an increase in vascular resistance that could clearly be reduced by o2 breathing .
in 5 dogs , lung mast cell counts showed no decrease in the lobes with pneumonia .
in pneumococcal pneumonia , the hypoxic pulmonary pressor mechanism serves to decrease blood flow to the diseased lobes and , thus , to maintain the arterial po2 .
lung mast cells could participate in this response .
value of capillary blood gas analyses in the management of acute respiratory distress .
a comparative study of blood gases and acid-base parameters , obtained simultaneously from arterial and finger capillary samples , was performed in 45 patients in acute respiratory distress without circulatory shock .
although small and significant differences were found between the 2 sample ph , po2 , pco2 , and bicarbonate values , the correlations between the 2 were greater than or equal to 0.97 for each variable .
it was concluded that although the arterial blood is the preferred sample for evaluation of blood gases and acid-base status of patients in acute respiratory distress , capillary blood appears to be a valid substitute in the management of these patients .
this technique is particularly valuable in pediatric practice , where repeated arterial samples are less easily obtained .
bone marrow transplantation in man .
bone marrow transplantation is emerging as a viable therapeutic approach to a number of diseases that are usually or uniformly fatal .
we review here recent experiences in bone marrow transplantation in man at ucla and in various other institutions throughout the world .
we examine marrow transplantation in immunodeficiency diseases , acute leukemia , and aplastic anemia and consider the problems of infection in the transplant recipients .
the applications of tissue typing to marrow transplantation and immunologic manipulations , which may influence engraftment and graft-versus-host disease , are also reported .
the virus hypothesis in systemic lupus erythematosus .
type-c viruses are currently the prime etiologic candidates in systemic lupus erythematosus .
on the basis of knowledge gained from studies of experimental and human models of chronic viral disease , there are possible pathogenetic roles of a virus in systemic lupus erythematosus .
experimental attempts at implicating specific viruses have been predominantly negative , but evidence for enhanced type-c-virus expression has recently been reported .
letter : beta-blockers and myasthenia gravis .
letter : heat exhaustion and respiratory alkalosis .
ascorbic acid and biological systems .
ascorbic acid and electron transport .
some properties of the ascorbate free radical .
dehydroascorbate uptake and reduction by human blood neutrophils , erythrocytes , and lymphocytes .
the membrane transport of ascorbic acid .
a system for measuring the rate of transport of dehydroascorbate into human red blood cells shows michaelis-menten type kinetics with substrate inhibition at levels above 150 mum dha .
the addition of sugars impairs this transport in the diminishing hierarchy d-glucose , d-mannose , d-xylose , d-galactose , l-lyxose , d-araboascorbate , l-sorbose and 2-deoxy-d-ribose .
the effect of glucose on transport of ascorbate is marked at physiological levels .
transport of dha is accelerated by copper ion and allows dehydroascorbate to move against a concentration gradient .
the evidence supports the hypotheses proposing that hyperglycemia will impair the intracellular availability of vitamin c .
chemistry and metabolism of ascorbic acid and ascorbate sulfate .
safety considerations with high ascorbic acid dosage .
carcinofetal alterations in glucosamine-6-phosphate synthetase .
the levels of glucosamine-6-phosphate synthetase in various rat tissues including those undergoing differentiation or regeneration revealed that the enzyme is related to tissue proliferation and differentiation .
in the liver upon neoplastic transformation , the level of glucosamine 6-phosphate synthetase rises and the liver form of the enzyme having a pi at 5.0 is replaced by a form with a pi of 4.1 .
since the latter form has also been found present in whole embryos ( 12- and 14-day ) and brain , the molecular alterations of glucosamine-6-phosphate synthetase in liver neoplasia can be considered to be carcinofetal .
a hepatoma-associated alkaline phosphatase , the kasahara isozyme , compared with one of the isozymes of fl amnion cells .
it was found that a human hepatoma-associated alp ( orthophosphoric monoester phosphohydrolase , e.c. 3.1.3.1 ) shared electrophoretic mobility , inactivation by urea , inhibition by inorganic phosphate , ethylenediaminetetraacetate , and amino acids ( l-phenylalanine , l-leucine and l-homoarginine ) , heat stability , sensitivity to neuraminidase , ph optimum , km value , and antigen site with fast moving alp isozymes of fl cell strain derived from human amniotic membrane .
however , 40-week-old fresh amniotic membrane lacked this isozyme .
instead , it had a placental type alp consisting of minor components .
the other alp isozyme of fl cells had properties common to hepatoma alp with regard to l-phenylalanine sensitivity , inhibition by ethylenediaminetetraacetate , inactivation by urea , and antigen site , but differed from it in electrophoretic mobility , sensitivity to l-leucine and l-homoarginine , and the presence of another antigen site .
it was more heat stable and more sensitive to inhibition by inorganic phosphate than hepatoma ap .
the possible regulatory mechanism between the hepatoma-type alp and the placental type alp in the amnion cells is considered .
gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase .
a sensitive indicator of renal ischaemic injury in experimental animals and renal homograft rejection in man .
the sites of ischaemic injury within the kidney are reviewed and the diagnostic value of measurements of plasma and urinary enzymes in renal ischaemic injury and in renal homotransplant rejection in experimental animals and man is examined .
gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase ( gamma-gt ) is an enzyme primarily located in the brush border of the proximal convoluted tubule of the kidney .
its unique localization in the cells most easily damaged by ischaemia and its ease of assay provide the rationale for its use in the measurement and diagnosis of renal ischaemic injury .
gamma-gt activity was measured in dogs undergoing varying periods of renal ischaemia and under conditions of local renal hypothermia and was shown to be a sensitive indicator of ischaemic injury .
twenty consecutive patients undergoing renal homotransplantation were studied by daily estimation of their 24-h urinary gamma-gt activity ; excellent correlation was obtained between raised levels of this enzyme and the clinical diagnosis of transplant rejection .
influence of ph on the heat inactivation of staphylococcal enterotoxin a as determined by monkey feeding and serological assay .
the effect of ph on the thermal inactivation of staphylococcal enterotoxin a was investigated .
analysis of heated toxin by immunodiffusion in gel indicated that enterotoxin a in beef bouillon was inactivated faster at ph 5.3 than at ph 6.2 .
the z values ( slopes ) for the heat inactivation curves at ph 6.2 and 5.3 were 49.5 and 55 f ( about 27 and 30 c ) , respectively .
enterotoxin produced and heated in dialyzed casamino acids medium and assayed by monkey feeding was more easily inactivated by heat at ph 5.3 than at ph 7.8 .
thermal inactivation curves for enterotoxin a in beef bouillon ( 5 mug/ml , ph 5.3 ) were determined by two methods , monkey feeding and serological assay .
the z values for the curves obtained by these two methods were both 55 f , although loss of biological or toxic activity of the enterotoxin occurred before loss of serological activity .
survival of salmonellae during pepperoni manufacture .
survival of salmonellae in artificially contaminated beef-pork mixtures ( approximately 10 ( 4 ) salmonellae/g ) was studied in pepperoni prepared by either a natural flora or lactic starter culture fermentation or in nonfermented sausages .
the pepperoni did not become salmonellae free during the usual commercial 15 to 30-day drying period .
salmonella dublin was present in all products , fermented or unfermented , after 42 to 43 days of drying .
at a lower level of contamination , 10 ( 3 ) /g , s. dublin could not be recovered from starter culture-fermented pepperoni after 14 days of drying but persisted in the natural flora-fermented sausage .
s. typhimurium ( initial count , 10 ( 4 ) /g ) was absent after 42 days of drying when starter culture was used to ferment the pepperoni , but was still present in the natural flora-fermented and unfermented products .
s. dublin , host adapted to cattle , or s. choleraesuis , host adapted to swine , had similar survival patterns in beef pork , or beef-pork pepperoni .
heating salmonellae contaminated beef-pork pepperoni ( after fermantation but before drying ) to an internal temperature of 60 c ( trichinae inactivating ) eliminated the food-borne pathogen from the sausage product .
growth of staphylococcus and salmonella on frankfurters with and without sodium nitrite .
conventional and nitrite-free frankfurters in loosely wrapped packages were compared as to their ability to support growth of salmonella , staphylococcus , and their naturally occurring spoilage flora at 7 c ( simulating refrigerated storage ) and 20 c ( simulating possible temperature abuse ) .
at 7 c salmonella did not grow in either type of frankfurter ; staphylococcus and the natural spoilage flora sometimes grew more rapidly in the absence of nitrite , but the difference was not significant .
at 20 c growth of salmonella , staphylococcus , and of the spoilage flora was , at most , only slightly faster on nitrite-free frankfurters .
salmonella was not suppressed in broth culture experiments the ph and nitrite content found in frankfurters .
although either type of frankfurter can become hazardous due to growth of salmonella or staphylococcus , no unusual or additional hazard resulted from the omission of nitrite from frankfurters .
characterization of an extracellular dextranase from fusarium moniliforme .
an extracellular dextranase ( ec 3.2.1.11 ) was purified approximately 75-fold from cell-free culture filtrates of fusarium moniliforme .
the purified dextranase was of the endo type , and isomaltose was identified as the primary end product of dextran hydrolysis .
the molecular weight of the dextranase was determined to be 39,000 by gel permeation chromatography .
the enzyme was most active at ph 5.5 , and the temperature optimum was near 55 c .
activity was not inhibited by either ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid or iodoacetate .
the km for dextran with an average molecular weight of 10,000 was estimated to be 1.1 x 10 ( -4 ) m .
the electrophoretic mobility of the dextranase was distinctly different from that of a penicillium-derived commercial dextranase .
the f. moniliforme dextranase was also found to differ from the commercial preparation by its greater relative activity against glucans isolated from streptococcus mutans .
nonautotrophic thiobacillus in acid mine water .
nonautotrophic thiobacilli were isolated from the acidic water of a coal mine .
based on their mixotrophic physiology , the isolates are regarded as strains of thiobacillus perometabolis .
reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate ( nadph ) -dependent formation and breakdown of hydrogen peroxide during mixed function oxidation reactions in liver microsomes .
mixed function oxidation of hexobarbital and generation of nadph by the hexose monophosphate shunt in isolated rat liver cells .
studies on the alkaline phosphatase and 5'-nucleotidase of dictyostelium discoideum .
evidence of an essential histidine residue in rabbit liver aryl sulfatase a .
substrate and inhibitor complexes of dihydrofolate reductase from amethopterin-resistant l1210 cells .
glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenases from euglena gracilis .
purification and physical and chemical characterization .
isoionic titration and isopycnic density gradient centrifugation studies of magnesium activation and subunit dissociation in yeast enolase .
a beta-disordered chain transition in oligo ( tyr-ala-glu ) .
aminoacylation of escherichia coli cysteine trna by selenocysteine .
a polydeoxythymidylic acid-specific deoxyribonuclease from rat ascites hepatoma cells .
effects of net charge on the hydrogen-deuterium exchange parameters of lysozyme .
effect of ph and ionic strength on the catalytic and allosteric properties of native and chemically modified ox liver mitochondrial glutamate dehydrogenase .
carbohydrate compositions of the rabbit plasminogen isozymes .
ph dependence of the alpha-glucose 1,6-diphosphate inhibition of hexokinase ii .
inhibition by lipoperoxidation of amino acid incorporation by rough microsomal membranes in vitro and its partial reversibility .
enzymatic synthesis and reactions of uridine 5'- ( 5-thio-alphad-glucopyranosyl pyrophosphate ) .
heme-linked protonation of hcn , co , no and o2 complexes of reduced horseradish peroxidases .
graft versus host reaction .
an ultrastructural study .
graft versus host reaction ( gvh ) following leukocytic transfusions occurred in a 34-year-old man with a generalized lymphosarcoma .
histologic and ultrastructural studies were performed , with special reference to dyskeratotic cells scattered in the epidermis .
these cells are usually considered to be a constant and important feature of gvh reaction .
dense aggregation of tonofilaments , including cytoplasmic organelles and loss of desmosomes , were seen in dyskeratotic cells .
several intracellular desmosomes with tonofilaments bound to their attachment plaque were observed .
some of these cells were able to reach the horny layer ; some others were phagocytosed by neighboring keratinocytes .
these cells could be the result of a toxic damage to the epidermis , provoked by the immunologic phenomenon implicated in gvh reaction .
later in the clinical course , bullae formations occurred , showing some features of toxic epidermal necrolysis ( ten ) , as well as features of gvh reaction .
nephrotic syndrome in indian children .
a clinicopathological study of 206 indian children with nephrotic syndrome showed a primary renal cause in 195 ( 96 % ) , of which 77 % were boys .
in 126 children ( 96 boys , 30 girls ) onset of the disorder occurred before the age of 5 years .
renal biopsy showed minimal lesions in 150 patients ( 77 % ) ; in 85 of these biopsy was done 3 months to 16 years after onset of the nephrotic syndrome .
significant renal histological abnormalities in 45 cases were labelled as mesangiocapillary 8 , mesangioproliferative 4 , proliferative with extensive crescents 2 , membranous 3 , focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 9 , focal global glomerulosclerosis 2 , advanced nonspecific 8 , and mild proliferative 9 .
nephritic manifestations were mainly associated with significant renal lesions , which were more frequently encountered when the onset of disease was after the age of 5 years .
clearance of proteinuria with corticosteroid therapy was practically confined to patients with minimal or mild renal histological changes .
our findings suggest that the pattern of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome in indian children is similar to that reported from western countries .
separation of deoxyribonucleases ( dnases ) of normal human stratum corneum and psoriatic scales by micro-disc-electrophoresis .
normal stratum corneum and psoriatic scales were homogenized and a differential centrifugation was performed .
the dnase activity of the individual fractions was investigated by micro-dis-electrophoresis .
at ph 5 only in the 600xg pellet and 105.000xg supernatant of normal keratin dnase activity could be observed .
however , all psoriatic fractions showed distinct enzyme activities .
at ph 7.4 little psoriatic dnase activity could only be demonstrated in the 105.000xg supernatant .
except from the 15.000xg pellet all fractions of normal stratum corneum displayed marked activities .
in addition the 105.000xg supernatant showed two different dnase bands .
subcellular distribution of phosphatases , proteinases , and ribonucleases in normal human stratum corneum and psoriatic scales .
the subcellular distribution of phosphatases , proteinases , and ribonucleases of normal human stratum corneum and psoriatic scales was determined after differential centrifugation .
all psoriatic enzymes showed much increased activities as compared to the normal stratum corneum enzymes .
the highest activities of alkaline phosphatase from psoriatic scales could be detected in the nuclear fraction .
the main activities of all other tested phosphatases and proteinases were present in the cytoplasmatic fraction .
the subcellular distribution of the ribonucleases varied according to the ph value .
a reinvestigation of the sites of transcription and translation of euglena chloroplastic phenylalanyl-trna synthetase .
an attempt was made to determine the sites of chloroplast phenylalanyl-trna synthetase transcription and translation .
inhibitors of bacterial rna and protein synthesis were added to logarithmic and stationary phase cultures of euglena gracilis wild-type b .
logarithmic phase cultures were sensitive to both types of inhibitors .
in stationary phase cultures plastid synthetase was reduced by rna but not by protein synthesis inhibitors .
the effect of the antibiotics on the mitochondrial enzyme was also noted .
several possible explanations of these resuults are discussed .
[ hyperthermia in the rabbit. ii. studies on influencing respiration with exogenic hyperthermia ] .
rectal temperature , respiratory rate , arterial and venous ph and arterial and venous pco2 were recorded at intervals of 15-30 minutes in female broiler rabbits exposed an environmental temperature of 35 degrees c , until they died .
respiratory rate and blood ph rose , and pco2 fell , until a rectal temperature of 42 degrees c was reached .
upon further increase in rectal temperature the respiratory rate and ph began to fall , while pco2 began to rise .
the rabbits died when rectal temperature reached 43 degrees c .
features of respiratory function peculiar to the rabbit were discussed .
outpatient phenothiazine use and bone marrow depression .
a report from the drug epidemiology unit and the boston collaborative drug surveillance program .
phenothiazine-induced bone marrow depression ( bmd ) was evaluated in three separate but complementary data bases : ( 1 ) among 1,048 patients admitted to psychiatric hospitals , there was no evidence of subclinical depression of the white blood cell ( wbc ) count attributable to phenothiazines used before admission .
( 2 ) among 18,587 medical inpatients , there were 34 patients admitted for bmd in the absence of neoplasia or prior cytotoxic drug therapy ; one of the latter reported using chlorpromazine hydrochloride , but it is doubtful whether this drug was the cause of the bmd .
( 3 ) among 24,795 medical , surgical , and gynecological patients surveyed over a ten-month period in 1972 , there were four who were admitted for bmd ; one of the latter had a reversible leukopenia attributed to trifluoperazine hydrochloride .
[ tumour hyperacidulation through intravenous glucose infusion enhanced by amygdalin and beta-glucosidase application ( author's transl ) ] .
tumour peracidity in otherwise moderately hyperacidulated tumours or tumour regions of ds carcinosarcoma-bearing wistar rats attained by glucose infusion was substantially increased by simultaneous infusion of amygdalin and intratumoral i.m. or i.v. application of beta-glucosidase .
here the ph value of healthy tissue , measured at the sceletal muscle , remained unchanged .
by means of the said process , tumour hyperacidulation has been raised to a level of deltaph =0.97 ; attaining a ph difference between tumourous and normal tissue of up to deltaph = 1.6 .
in one case , the slope of ph reduction in the tumour increased to 870 % .
moreover , combined administration of glucose , amygdalin and beta-glucosidase evoked a significant cancerostatic effect hypogenesis , tumour regression ) being comparable with the action of an ifosfamid dosage of 150 mg-kg-1 .
however , i.m. and i.v. application of beta-glucosidase under narcosis results in an overall process that still remains somewhat too toxic .
hence optimizing studies are intended with the particular aim to further improve the comparability of this process .
[ determination of acidity-constants in mixed solvents ( author's transl ) ] .
studies of the pain produced by mafenide acetate preparations in burns .
in a double-blind triple cross-over clinical study , 37 patients were exposed to several formulations of mafenide acetate ( sulfamylon cream ) and their pain responses were recorded and converted to a semiquantitative pain index .
the 11.2 % concentration in cream was two to three times more painful than the 5 % concentration .
hypertonicity and not the ph level appears to be the cause of the pain produced by the high ( 11.2 % ) concentration .
the tonicity of the cream carrier and 11.2 % mafenide acetate are 1,080 mosm/kg and 1,100 mosm/kg , respectively , for a total of 2,180 mosm/kg .
the carrier cream without glycerol and a 5 % concentration of mafenide cream were much less painful than the 11.2 % concentration of mafenide .
both afforded a great deal of relief to the patients who received the medications .
microbiol growth in lipid emulsions used in parenteral nutrition .
parenteral nutrition via central venous catheterization is associated with serious risks , especially that of sepsis .
lipid emulsion ( intralipid [ sweden ] ) , which may be administered peripherally , was evaluated for its potential to support microbial growth .
washed cultures of staphylococcus aureus , candida albicans , and three species of gram-negative rods were all capable of multiplying in the emulsion at room temperature .
variations in inoculum size did not affect the growth rate .
studies comparing the emulsion to amino acid-glucose solutions ( total parenteral nutrition [ tpn ] ) confirmed other reports that tpn inhibits the growth of certain bacteria but merely retards fungal multiplication .
when human serum was added to the lipid emulsion in an attempt to simulate in vivo conditions at the catheter tip , escherichia coli was inhibited while the growth of s aureus and c albicians was unaltered .
propoxyphene and norpropoxyphene tissue concentrations in fatalities associated with propoxyphene hydrochloride and propoxyphene napsylate .
propoxyphene and its major metabolite norpropoxyphene have been determined in blood and liver in 29 cases of death in which propoxyphene , either as the hydrochloride or as the napsylate salt , was involved .
the use of propoxyphene napsylate ( darvon-n ) contributed to the deaths of 4 persons , 3 of whom were former heroin addicts receiving large amounts of this drug in connection with propoxyphene substitution programs .
in the majority of cases the norpropoxyphene blood concentrations exceed the propoxyphene concentrations , although brain determinations in several instances indicate that norpropoxyphene does not cross the blood-brain barrier with the same ease as propoxyphene .
on the basis of the comparative toxicities of propoxyphene and norpropoxyphene in animals and the high tissue concentrations of norporpoxyphene in man after propoxyphene administration , it is conceivable that norpropoxyphene contributes to the toxic effects of propoxyphene .
[ morphological manifestations and morphogenesis of the graft vs. host reaction in the brain of f1 hybrids following the administration of parental lymphoid cells and its effect on tumor inoculation ] .
it was established that intracerebral introduction of 10 min parental cells of the spleen brought about in hybrids ( cbaxc57bl/6 ) f1 infiltrative-destructive changes ( development of lymphocytic infiltrations , dystrophy in the nerve cells , myelin fibres and neurogliacytes ) the intensity of which was found to be considerably higher in cases of injection of parental spleen cells from specifically sensitized donors .
spleen cells of mice cba produced much greater changes as compared with those produced by spleen cells of mice c57bl/6 .
inoculation into the mice brain of 10 mln of spleen cells together with tumour in a dose of 1500 cells produced a clear cut inhibitory effect on the tumour growth , this effect being more pronounced following introduction of sensitized cells of the spleen of mice cba .
metachromatic leukodystrophy .
ultrastructural and enzymatic study of a case of variant o form .
a variant of metachromatic leukodystrophy ( mld ) , austin disease , is characterized by a multiple isozyme deficiency of arylsulfatase .
a 3 1/2-year-old girl with progressive mental and physical deterioration had decreased activities of arylsulfatases a and b in the leukocytes , shown by acylamide gel electrophoresis .
under the electron microscope , biopsy specimens of the brain and the peripheral nerve showed lamellar structures with socalled zebra bodies in the cytoplasmic processes of glial cells , granulo-membranous inclusions with fingerprint configurations in neurons , and myelinlike material in schwann cells .
results from our study suggest an intricate nature of this dysmetabolic disorder , which shows ultrastructural changes usually seen in classic mld , a deficiency of arylsulfatase a only , concomitant with those seen in mucopolysaccharidoses such as hurler and sanfilippo syndromes .
changes in the acid base status of sheep anaesthetised with a combination of atropine sulphate acepromazine and ketamine hydrochloride .
ph , paco2 , pao2 , standard bicarbonate , base excess and reduced ph were measured in sheep before and at regular intervals after administration of ketamine with and without atropine and acepromazine premedication .
a decrease in ph and pao2 and a rise in paco2 was observed 15 minutes after administration of ketamine .
administration of atropine with and without acepromazine had no significant effect on ph , paco2 and pao2 .
the values for standard bicarbonate , base excess and reduced ph were not significantly affected .
this indicates that minor changes observed in ph , paco2 after ketamine administration are compensated for by the healthy animal's blood buffer system .
influence of some physical factors on survival of marek's disease vaccine virus .
cell-associated marek's disease ( md ) vaccine was suspended at dilutions normally used for vaccination in seven commercially available diluents and in tryptose phosphate broth .
the stability of diluted vaccines was determined by assay in cell cultures subjected to 0 to 37 c for 0 to 90 minutes .
optimum holding temperatures for md vaccine virus survival varied with the specific diluents employed .
some diluents afforded greatest survival when dilution was at 0 c and held at 0 c , while others performed best when dilution was at 25 c followed by cooling and holding at 0 c .
diluents which allowed greatest survival when tested at 37 c also performed well under other temperature regimes .
spectinomycin dihydrochloride pentahydrate and various buffering compounds were added to commercial diluents used for diluting md vaccine .
additives producing osmolality of 745 mosm/kg and higher markedly reduced vaccine virus survival .
the adverse effects of high osmotic pressure were accentuated by extended holding time , elevated incubation temperature , and physical manipulations including mechanical mixing or expressing through a syringe and needle .
satisfactory md vaccine virus survival was afforded by a commercial diluent especially formulated to accommodate the ph osmolality changes produced by adding spectinomycin dihydrochloride pentahydrate .
molecular nature of beta-galactosidase from different tissues in two strains of the house mouse .
one inbred mouse strain , c57bl/kl , has high galactosidase activities in all tissues while another strain , dba/2/kl , has low activities determined by the bgs locus .
beta-galactosidase from these two strains was partly purified by a five-step procedure : acidification , ammonium sulfate precipitation , gel filtration at two phs , and isoelectric focusing .
no qualitative differences were found between the enzyme preparations from the two strains .
they had identical heat inactivation curves , ph optima , molecular weight , and isoelectric points , and the km values were very similar .
it thus seems that this genetic difference in enzyme activity probably can not be explained by a variation of the galactosidase-specific activity but rather reflects a difference in number of enzyme molecules .
eight different isoenzymes were separated from liver , kidney , and spleen .
each isoenzyme has a different electrophoretic mobility and there is a stepwise increase in molecular weight from 143,000 to 380,000 beginning with the protein having the lowest isoelectric point .
a likely interpretation is that the isoenzymes bind a smaller polypeptide in varying numbers in addition to the enzymatic polypeptide per se .
the effects of acute and chronic nicotine hydrogen ( + ) -tartrate administration and subsequent withdrawal on rat liver tryptophan pyrrolase activity and their comparison with those of morphine , phenobarbitone and ethanol .
acute administration of nicotine hydrogen ( + ) -tartrate enhances the activity of rat liver tryptophan pyrrolase by a hormonal mechanism .
chronic nicotine treatment inhibits , and subsequent withdrawal enhances , the pyrrolase activity .
the inhibition during chronic treatment is not due to a defective apoenzyme synthesis nor a decreased cofactor availability .
regeneration of liver nadp+ in vitro and in vivo reverses the inhibition .
chronic nicotine administration increases the liver nadph concentration .
the above effects of nicotine resemble to a remarkable degree those previously shown for morphine , phenobarbitone and ethanol .
all effects are compared , and their possible significance in relation to drug dependence is discussed .
plastid development in primary leaves of phaseolus vulgaris .
development of plastid adenosine triphosphatase activity during greening .
the etioplasts of dark-grown bean leaves showed atpase ( adenosine triphosphatase ) activity which had a ph optimum of 8.5 , was stimulated by dithiothreitol and unaffected by light-triggering .
bean chloroplasts showed a low activity of dark-induced atpase with a ph optimum of 8.5 and a substantial amount of light-triggered activity with a ph optimum of 8.0 .
the light-triggered activity depended on dithiothreitol and mg2+ and was promoted by phenazine methosulphate .
light-triggered atpase activity was completely inhibited by 20mum-dicyclohexylcarbodi-imide .
etioplasts developed light-triggered atpase activity in response to 30 min illumination of the etiolated leaves .
during the 48 h of light-induced greening of dark-grown leaves there was a 70 % increase of the chloroplast atpase activity found after light-triggering and a 30 % fall in the dark-induced activity , both expressed on a per leaf basis .
as the larger part of these changes occurred during the first 30 min of illumination , it is concluded that most or all of the chloroplast atpase was present in the etioplast , a conclusion identical with that of lockshin et al. ( 1971 ) for maize .
during 48 h of greening there was a tenfold increase in the amount of thylakoid membrane in the leaf together with an 83 % fall in the atpase activity per m2 of thylakoid membrane , measured after light-triggering .
tricarboxylic acid-cycle and related enzymes in restricted facultative methylotrophs .
the isolation is described of pure cultures of three non-methane-utilizing methylotrophic bacteria which , together with the previously described bacillus pm6 , have a very limited range of growth substrates ; these organisms are designated `` restricted facultative ' methylotrophs .
two of these isolates , w6a and w3a1 , grow only on glucose out of 50 non-c1 compounds tested , whereas the third isolate s2a1 and bacillus pm6 grow on betaine , glucose , gluconate , alanine , glutamate , citrate and nutrient agar , but not on any of a further 56 non-c1 compounds .
crude sonic extracts of trimethylamine-grown and glucose-grown w6a and w3a1 isolates , and of trimethylamine-grown c2a1 ( an obligate methylotroph ) contain ( i ) no detectable 2-oxogltarate dehydrogenase activity , ( ii ) very low or zero specific activities of succinate dehydrogenase and succinyl-coa synthetase and ( iii ) nad+-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase activity .
extracts of trimethylamine-grown pm6 and s2a1 methylotrophs have ( i ) very low 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase specific activities , ( ii ) comparatively high specific activities of succinate dehydrogenase , malate dehydrogenase and succinyl-coa synthetase and ( iii ) nadp+-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase activity but no nad+-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase activity .
the activities of most of these enzymes are increased during growth on glucose , alanine , glutamate or citrate , but only very low 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase activities are present under all growth conditions .
the restricted facultative methylotrophs grow on certain non-c1 compounds in the absence of 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase and , in some cases , of other enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid cycle ; these lesions can not therefore be the sole cause of obligate methylotrophy .
desaturation of stearic acid by liver and adipose tissue from obese-hyperglycaemic mice ( ob/ob ) .
stearic acid desaturase activity was assayed in preparations from perigenital adipose tissue and liver from lean and genetically obese female mice ( ob/ob ) .
the total activity in the perigenital adipose tissue from obese mice was threefold greater than in the tissue from lean mice , but per g of adipose tissue the activity was twofold greater in tissue from lean mice .
in liver , the activity in obese mice was elevated at 8 weeks of age , remained elevated up to 24 weeks and then decreased by half at 48 weeks , but at all ages was higher than that in lean mice .
the decrease in desaturase activity of liver from obese mice at 48 weeks corresponded to a change in the fatty acid composition of liver lipids toward that found in lean mice .
whereas in adipose tissue much of the increased enzyme activity may be due to tissue hyperplasia , in liver it is mainly an increased activity per cell .
the stimulation by synaptic transmitters of the incorporation of oleate into the phospholipid of synaptic membranes .
noradrenaline stimulated the incorporation of oleate into choline glycerophospholipids of guinea-pig brain synaptic membranes incubated in sodium phosphate buffer .
in the presence of 1 mm-naf , noradrenaline stimulated the incorporation of oleate into the choline glycerophospholipids , phosphatidylinositol , ethanolamine glycerophospholipids , phosphatidylserine and phosphatidic acid of synaptic membranes incubated in 10 mm-tris-hcl buffer .
in tris-chl containing 1 mm-naf , stimulation of incorporation of oleate into choline glycerophospholipids by noradrenaline was enhanced by atp , cacl2 , mgcl2 and coa plus dithiothreitol .
the optimum concentration of cacl2 for stimulation by 10 mum-noradrenaline was 10 mum .
in the presence of cacl2 , the optimum concentration of atp-2mgcl2 was in the range 0.1-1 mm .
acetylcholine , carbamoylcholine , 5-hydroxytryptamine , dopamine , histamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid also stimulated the incorporation of oleate into choline glycerophospholipids of synaptic membranes .
sigmoidal dose-response curves were obtained , similar to those obtained previously for stimulation by the same agonists of the hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine by phospholipase a2 ( gullis & rowe , 1975a ) .
the initial rate of transfer of oleate from oleoyl-coa to choline glycerophospholipid was similar to the initial rate of transfer from oleate-albumin , stimulated by noradrenaline .
transfer of oleate from oleoyl-coa was not appreciably stimulated by noradrenaline , but was stimulated by atp and mgcl2 .
the interaction of magnesium ions with teichoic acid .
the binding of mg2+ to the wall teichoic acid of lactobacillus buchneri n.c.i.b. 8007 was measured by equilibrium dialysis at controlled ionic concentration and ph .
in an aqueous solution containing 10mm-nacl at ph 5.0 one mg2+ ion was bound for every two phosphate groups of the teichoic acid , with an apparent association constant , kassoc .
= 2.7 x 10 ( 3 ) m-1 .
on lowering the ph below the pka of the phosphate groups the amount of bound mg2+ decreased concomitantly with decreasing ionization of the phosphate groups .
both the amount of mg2+ bound to the teichoic acid and the apparent association constants were similar in the presence of 10 mm concentrations of nacl or kcl but decreased markedly in the presence of 10 mm-cacl2 because of competition between ca2+ and mg2+ for the binding sites .
a similar effect was found when the concentration of nacl was increased from 0 to 50 mm .
the results are discussed in relation to the function of teichoic acid in the walls of gram-positive bacteria .
the mechanism of hydrolysis of beta-glycerophosphate by kidney alkaline phosphatase .
1. to identify the functional groups that are involved in the conversion of beta-glycerophosphate by alkaline phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.1 ) from pig kidney , the kinetics of alkaline phosphatase were investigated in the ph range 6.6-10.3 at substrate concentrations of 3 mum-30 mm .
from the plots of log vh+ against ph and log vh+/kh+m against ph one functional group with pk = 7.0 and two functional groups with pk = 9.1 were identified .
these groups are involved in substrate binding .
another group with pk = 8.8 was found , which in its unprotonated form catalyses substrate conversion .
2. gsh inhibits the alkaline phosphatase reversibly and non-competitively by attacking the bound zn ( ii ) .
3. the influence of the h+ concentration on the activation by mg2+ ions of alkaline pig kidney phosphate was investigated between ph 8.4 and 10.0 .
the binding of substrate and activating mg2+ ions occurs independently at all ph values between 8.4 and 10.0 .
the activation mechanism is not affected by the h+ concentration .
the mg2+ ions are bound by a functional group with a pk of 10.15. 4 .
a scheme is proposed for the reaction between enzyme , substrate , mg2+ and h+ and the overall rate equation is derived .
5. the mechanism of substrate binding and splitting by the functional groups of the active centre is discussed on the basis of a model .
mg2+ seems to play a role as an autosteric effector .
the ph-dependence and group modification of beta-lactamase i .
the ph-dependence of the kinetic parameters for the hydrolysis of the beta-lactam ring by beta-lactamase i ( penicillinase , ec 3.5.2.6 ) was studied .
benzylpenicillin and ampicillin ( 6- [ d ( - ) -alpha-aminophenylacetamido ] penicillanic acid ) were used .
both kcat. and kcat./km for both substrates gave bell-shaped plots of parameter versus ph .
the ph-dependence of kcat./km for the two substrates gave the same value ( 8.6 ) for the higher apparent pk , and so this value may characterize a group on the free enzyme ; the lower apparent pk values were about 5 ( 4.85 for benzylpenicillin , 5.4 for ampicillin ) .
for benzylpenicillin both kcat. and kcat./km depended on ph in exactly the same way .
the value of km for benzylpenicillin was thus independent of ph , suggesting that ionization of the enzyme's catalytically important groups does not affect binding of this substrate .
the ph-dependence of kcat. for ampicillin differed , however , presumably because of the polar group in the side chain .
the hypothesis that the pk5 group is a carboxyl group was tested .
three reagents that normally react preferentially with carboxyl groups inactivated the enzyme : the reagents were woodward's reagent k , a water-soluble carbodi-imide , and triethyloxonium fluoroborate .
these findings tend to support the idea that a carboxylate group plays a part in the action of beta-lactamase i .
oxidase-peroxidase enzymes of datura innoxia .
oxidation of formylphenylacetic acid ethyl ester .
an enzyme system from datura innoxia roots oxidizing formylphenylacetic acid ethyl ester was purified 38-fold by conventional methods such as ( nh4 ) 2so4 fractionation , negative adsorption on alumina cy gel and chromatography on deae-cellulose .
the purified enzyme was shown to catalyse the stoicheiometric oxidation of formylphenylacetic acid ethyl ester to benzoylformic acid ethyl ester and formic acid , utilizing molecular o2 .
substrate analogues such as phenylacetaldehyde and phenylpyruvate were oxidized at a very low rate , and formylphenylacetonitrile was an inhilating agents , cyanide , thiol compounds and ascorbic acid .
this enzyme was identical with an oxidase-peroxidase isoenzyme .
another oxidase-peroxidase isoenzyme which separated on deae-chromatography also showed formylphenylacetic acid ethyl ester oxidase activity , albeit to a lesser extent .
the properties of the two isoenzymes of the oxidase were compared and shown to differ in their oxidation and peroxidation properties .
the oxidation of formylphenylacetic acid ethyl ester was also catalysed by horseradish peroxidase .
the datura isoenzymes exhibited typical haemoprotein spectra .
the oxidation of formylphenylacetic acid ethyl ester was different from other peroxidase-catalysed reactions in not being activated by either mn2+ or monophenols .
the oxidation was inhibited by several mono- and poly-phenols and by catalase .
a reaction mechanism for the oxidation is proposed .
purification of 2-oxoaldehyde dehydrogenase and its dependence on unusual amines .
1. 2-oxoaldehyde dehydrogenase was purified from sheep liver and gave one band on polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis .
2. the enzyme was completely dependent for its activity on the presence of tris or one of a number of related amines , all of general structure : ( see article ) .
when more than one r group was hydrogen no enzyme activity was observed .
3. only one of these amines is known to exist in living tissues and large concentrations of all amines were required for maximum activity .
l-2-aminopropan-1-ol was the most effective amine on the basis of substrate km and vmax. values and the amine km values .
4. the enzyme was activated by phosphate which lowered the km values for methylglyoxal , amine and nad+ .
5. the ph optimum of the enzyme was 9.3 and there was no activity at ph values below 7.8 .
a search for activators that might produce activity at ph 7.4 proved unsuccessful .
6. the enzyme was inhibited by rather large concentrations of barbiturates ( 6-46 mm ) and nitro-alcohol analogues of the activating amines ( 66-139 mm ) .
determination of polyadenylate-rich ribonucleic acid in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm of plasmacytoma cells .
a number of parameters affecting the adsorption of rrna and poly ( a ) -containing rna to millipore filters were investigated separately .
binding of both types of rna to the filter was dependent on the concentration of rna , ph and mg2+ concentration of the reaction mixture .
both types of rna bound to the filter optimally at slightly acid ph values .
the binding of poly ( a ) -containing rna to the filter exhibited a broad ph-dependence compared with that of rrna .
the ratio of poly ( a ) -rich rna/rrna retained by the filter was maximal between ph7 and 8 .
the presence of 1 mm-edta or a high concentration of nacl ( over 0.5m ) decreased the affinity of rna for the filter .
the amount of poly ( a ) -containing rna in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm of a plasmacytoma cell line ( mpc-11 ) labelled with [ 32p ] pi was determined by the millipore-filter technique under conditions that minimized contamination by rrna .
these data were compared with the estimations made by oligo ( dt ) -cellulose chromatography .
the results obtained by these two methods were in good agreement for rna labelled for short periods ( up to 2h ) .
in long labelling and pulse-chase experiments , however , contamination of the filter by rrna of increasing specific radioactivity in the cytoplasm gave an erroneous value for poly ( a ) -containing rna by the millipore-filter technique .
determinations made on the nuclear fraction by these two methods did not show significant variation in short- and long-term labelling experiments .
the amino acid sequence of neurospora nadp-specific glutamate dehydrogenase .
the tryptic peptides .
the nadp-specific glutamate dehydrogenase of neurospora crassa was digested with trypsin , and peptides accounting for 441 out of the 452 residues of the polypeptide chain were isolated and substantially sequenced .
additional experimental detail has been deposited as supplementary publication sup 50052 ( 11 pages ) with the british library ( lending division ) , boston spa , wetherby , w. yorkshire ls23 7bq , u.k. , from whom copies may be obtained under the terms given in biochem j .
( 1975 ) 145 , 5 .
the amino acid sequence of neurospora nadp-specific glutamate dehydrogenase .
peptides from digestion with a staphylococcal proteinase .
the extracellular proteinase of staphylococcus aureus strain v8 was used to digest the nadp-specific glutamate dehydrogenase of neurospora crassa .
of 35 non-overlapping peptides expected from the glutamate content of the polypeptide chain , 29 were isolated and substantially sequenced .
the sequences obtained were valuable in providing overlaps for the alignment of about two-thirds of the sequences found in tryptic peptides [ wootton , j. c. , taylor , j , g. , jackson , a. a. , chambers , g. k. & fincham , j. r. s. ( 1975 ) biochem. j. 149 , 739-748 ] .
the blocked n-terminal peptide of the protein was isolated .
this peptide was sequenced by mass spectrometry , and found to have n-terminal n-acetylserine by howard r .
morris and anne dell , whose results are presented as an appendix to the main paper .
the staphylococcal proteinase showed very high specificity for glutamyl bonds in the nh4hco3 buffer used .
partial splits of two aspartyl bonds , both asp-ile , were probably attributable to the proteinase .
no cleavage of glutaminyl or s-carboxymethylcysteinyl bonds was found .
additional experimental detail has been deposited as supplementary publication sup 50053 ( 5 pages ) with the british library ( lending division ) , boston spa , wetherby , w. yorkshire ls23 7bq , u.k , from whom copies may be obtained under the terms given in biochem .
j. ( 1975 ) 1458 5 .
the amino acid sequence of neurospora nadp-specific glutamate dehydrogenase .
peptic and chymotryptic peptides and the complete sequence .
peptic and chymotryptic peptides were isolated form the nadp-specific glutamate dehydrogenase of neurospora crassa and substantially sequenced .
out of 452 residues in the polypeptide chain , 265 were recovered in the peptic and 427 in the chymotryptic peptides .
together with the tryptic peptides [ wootton , j. c. , taylor , j. g. , jackson , a. a. , chambers , g. k. & fincham , j. r. s. ( 1975 ) biochem. j. 149 , 749-755 ] , these establish the complete sequence of the chain , including the acid and amide assignments , except for seven places where overlaps are inadequate .
these remaining alignments are deduced from information on the cnbr fragments obtained in another laboratory [ blumenthal , k. m. , moon , k. & smith , e. l. ( 1975 ) , j. biol. chem. 250 , 3644-3654 ] .
further information has been deposited as supplementary publication sup 50054 ( 17 pages ) with the british library ( lending division ) , boston spa , wetherby , w. yorkshire ls23 7bq , u.k. , from whom copies may be obtained under the terms given in biochem .
j. ( 1975 ) 145 , 5 .
activities of citrate synthase , nad+-linked and nadp+-linked isocitrate dehydrogenases , glutamate dehydrogenase , aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase in nervous tissues from vertebrates and invertebrates .
1. the activities of citrate synthase and nad+-linked and nadp+-linked isocitrate dehydrogenases were measured in nervous tissue from different animals in an attempt to provide more information about the citric acid cycle in this tissue .
in higher animals the activities of citrate synthase are greater than the sum of activities of the isocitrate dehydrogenases , whereas they are similar in nervous tissues from the lower animals .
this suggests that in higher animals the isocitrate dehydrogenase reaction is far-removed from equilibrium .
if it is assumed that isocitrate dehydrogenase activities provide an indication of the maximum flux through the citric acid cycle , the maximum glycolytic capacity in nervous tissue is considerably greater than that of the cycle .
this suggest that glycolysis can provide energy in excess of the aerobic capacity of the tissue .
2. the activities of glutamate dehydrogenase are high in most nervous tissues and the activities of aspartate aminotransferase are high in all nervous tissue investigated .
however , the activities of alanine aminotransferase are low in all tissues except the ganglia of the waterbug and cockroach .
in these insect tissues , anaerobic glycolysis may result in the formation of alanine rather than lactate .
properties of 5-aminolaevulinate synthetase and its relationship to microsomal mixed-function oxidation in the southern armyworm ( spodoptera eridania ) .
1. activity of 5-aminolaevulinate synthetase was measured in the midgut and other tissues of the last larval instar of the southern armyworm ( spodoptera eridania cramer , formerly prodenia eridania cramer ) .
2. optimum conditions for measuring the activity were established with respect to all variables involved and considerable differences from those reported for mammalian enzyme preparations were found .
3. maximum activity ( 20 nmol/h per mg of protein ) occurs 18-24 h after the fifth moult and thereafter decreases to trace amounts as the larvae age and approach pupation .
4. synthetase activity was rapidly induced by oral administration ( in the diet ) of pentamethylbenzene , phenobarbital , diethyl 1,4-dihydro-2,4,6-trimethylpyridine-3 , 5-dicarboxylate , and 2-allyl-2-isopropylacetamide .
5. puromycin inhibited the induction of synthetase by pentamethylbenzene .
6. induction of 5-aminolaevulinate synthetase correlated well with the induction of microsomal n-demethylation of p-chloro-n-methylaniline , except for phenobarbital , which induced the microsomal oxidase relatively more than the synthetase .
amp-deaminase of human skeletal muscle .
divalent metal cations and catalytic activity .
the attachment of glutamine synthetase to brain membranes .
studies on variant glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenases : g6pd fort worth .
nature and possible origin of human serum ribonuclease .
formation of non-amidine products in the reaction of primary amines with imido esters .
formation of non-amidine products in the chemical modification of horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase with imido esters .
tetrahydropterin : reduction of cytochrome c and coupled phosphorylation at mitochondrial site 3 .
dihydrofolate reductase from a methotrexate-resistant escherichia coli : proton magnetic resonance studies of complexes with folate and methotrexate .
ampholyte displacement chromatography - a new technique for the separation of proteins illustrated by the resolution of beta-n-acetyl-d-hexosaminidase isoenzymes unresolvable by isoelectric focusing or conventional ion-exchange chromatography .
evidence for histidine as another functional group of delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase from beef liver .
on the isolation of a prolactin inhibiting factor ( hormone ) .
a comparison of the substrate specificities of endo-beta-n-acetylglucosaminidases from streptomyces griseus and diplococcus pneumoniae .
dna polymerase in nuceoli isolated from ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
the nad-linked alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase of trypanosomes .
further evidence for a proton pump in mouse kidney phagolysosomes : effect of nigericin and 2,4-dinitrophenol on the stimulation of intralysosomal proteolysis by atp .
formate as an inhibitor of cytochrome c oxidase .
trypsin-catalyzed activation of aspartase .
effect of pressure on the absorption spectrum of some heme compounds .
evidence for an acetyl-enzyme intermediate in the action of acetyl-coa synthetase .
inhibition of the adenylylation of glutamine synthetase by methionine sulfone during nitrogenase derepression .
isolation and purification of cytokinin binding protein from tobacco leaves by affinity column chromatography .
on the possible interrelations of the reactivity of soluble succinate dehydrogenase with ferricyanide , reconstitution activity , and the hipip iron sulfur center .
inhibition of bacterial wall lysins by lipoteichoic acids and related compounds .
modification of human erythrocyte ghosts with transglutaminase .
glycerol inhibition of purified and chromatin-associated mouse liver hepatoma rna polymerase ii activity .
phase changes induced by cyclopropane of phosphatidylserine bilayers in the presence and absence of calcium .
atp synthesis catalyzed by purified dccd-sensitive atpase incorporated into reconstituted purple membrane vesicles .
proposed mechanisms of stimulation and inhibition of guanylate cyclase with reference to the actions of chlorpromazine , phosphoipases and triton x-100 .
lysyl oxidase dependent synthesis of a collagen cross-link containing histidine .
utilization of ammonia for tryptophan synthesis .
a heparan sulfate-degrading endoglycosidase from rat liver tissue .
study of the heat treatment of hemoglobin by means of spin labels .
activation of residual acidic alpha-mannosidase activity in mannosidosis tissues by metal ions .
beef liver l-glutamate dehydrogenase mechanism : presteady state study of the catalytic reduction of 2.oxoglutarate by nadph .
a specific effect of external atp on the permeability of transformed 3t3 cells .
nitrosation of phenacetin .
formation of n-nitroso-2-nitro-4-ethoxyacetanilide as an unstable product of the nitrosation in dilute aqueous-acidic solution .
reaction of phenacetin with n2o4 in glacial acetic acid at 10 ( 0 ) c gives n-nitroso-2-nitro-4-ethoxyacetanilide .
this n-nitrosoacylarylamine is stable at low temperatures ( -- 30 degress c ) but unstable at ambient temperature .
no intact n-nitroso-2-nitro-4-ethoxyacetanilide can be detected when phenacetin is nitrosated under conditions simulating those in the stomach ( 37 degrees c , ph 1 ) .
instead , 2-nitro-4-ethoxybenzenediazonium chloride is the main reaction product found .
under the conditions applied , the n-nitrosoacylarylamine rapidly rearranges by 1,3-migration of the acetyl group .
the resulting diazoester dissociates into the corresponding diazonium salt .
trapping of the diazonium ion with 1-naphthol as an azo dye provides a useful means to identify the parent n-nitroso compound and to measure colorimetrically its rate of formation .
the yields obtained in dilute aqueous nitrosation mixtures are lower than expected ; the reasons for this finding are discussed .
preliminary results of animal experiments show that the n-nitroso compound is a directly acting carcinogen .
[ thermographic and histologic studies of the antiinflammatory effect of benorilate by means of the cotton pellet test in the rat ( author's transl ) ] .
1. the effect of ( 4-acetamido-phenyl ) -2-acetoxy-benzoate ( benorilate , benortan ) on the inflammatory process was studied thermographically and histologically in cotton-pellet tests on rats .
2. following implantation of the cotton-pellet , thermography shows a clear inhibition of the local inflammation due to treatment with benorilate .
3. histological examination shows a corresponding influence of benorilate upon the proliferative phase of the inflammation .
4. the success of antiphlogistic therapy is in correlation with the time of medication .
acidic antiinflammatory agents -- correlations of some physical , pharmacological and clinical data .
fifteen acidic antiinflammatory agents , for which some clinical data have previously been published , have been examined for their potency in the carrageenan-induced rat foot edema test , and for their acidity ( pka ) and partition coefficients .
published serum half-life data and daily clinical ( anti-arthritic ) dose have been tabulated for these drugs and correlations between these various parameters are discussed .
the rat foot edema carrageenan test has proved to be a fairly reliable predictor of clinical dose for most acidic antiinflammatory agents of moderate serum half-life .
[ clinical trial of a novel benzodiazepine derivative in a double-blind study using the wittenborn psychiatric rating scale ( author's transl ) ] .
from testing a new benzodiazepine derivative , 8-chloro-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1h-1,5-benzodiazepin-2-one ( bu 1014 ) , as measured against a placebo in a double-blind trial , the following conclusions can be drawn .
the test was carried out over two periods of a fortnight each with a change-over between the two periods .
1. the change-over method has proven suitable to reveal side effects of the substance which last for at least two weeks .
owing to the substance's sequelae , however , statistical analysis of the second treatment period's information is not possible with this experimental design .
2. the statistical methods used proved more effective than the usual methods as they allow clearer statements to be made on the efficacy of the substance .
3. within the first period of 14 days both the group receiving the placebo and the drug treated group showed a decrease in the intensity of anxiety .
4. the sequelae of bu 1014 can be described as an increase in restiveness and anxiety in those patients who received the placebo in the second treatment period .
proceedings : ion activities on the surface of pial vessels following intravenous vasoactive drugs .
proceedings : cerebral blood flow during arterial hypoxia .
proceedings : regulation of the diameters of pial arteries in cats .
proceedings : coupling between metabolism and blood flow in the brain in hypoxic hypoxia and hypoglycemia .
flavoxate and 3-methylflavone-8-carboxylic acid .
assay methods in blood and urine , plasma-red cells repartition and stability .
the following assay methods for pharmacokinetic studies on flavoxate ( f ) and on its main metabolite , i.e. 3-methylflavone-8-carboxylic acid ( a ) , are described .
1. spectrophotometry for the assay of f and of a in plasma , 2. tlc-spectrodensitometry and glc for the assay of a in urine after acid hydrolysis , 3. tlc-spectrodensitometry for determining the f : a ratio in plasma or in urine .
it was found that f hydrolyzes into a .
this process depends on the ph and on the medium .
in water , at ph 5.0 , f is stable , while in phosphate buffer at ph 7.4 the semi-hydrolysis time is 60 min .
in a solution with bovine serum albumin , in rat , rabbit , dog or human plasma the semi-hydrolysis times are between 5 and 60 min .
finally the plasma-red cells repartitions of f and of a were studied in vitro in rat , rabbit , dog and human blood and found between 0.8 and 2.0 for f and between 2.1 and 4.6 for a .
[ on the pharmacology of 9,10-dihydro-10- ( 1-methyl-4-piperidylidene ) -9-anthrol ( wa 335 ) , a histamine and serotonin antagonist ( author's transl ) ] .
the substance 9,10-dihydro-10- ( 1-methyl-4-piperidylidene ) -9-anthrol ( wa 335 ) was examined for its antagonistic effects against histamine and serotonin , for its atropine-like properties as well as for a series of other qualities in comparison with cyproheptadine and pimethixene .
the anti-histamine and anti-serotonin activities of compound wa 335 on the smooth muscle and the capillary do not only exceed that of cyproheptadine but also that of pimethixene .
wa 335 shows an extremely strong binding to histamine and serotonin receptors .
in the dose range in which it causes already an antamine effect , its oral absorption is very good .
the anti-anaphylactic effect is much stronger than that of cyproheptadine .
like pimethixene and cyproheptadine , wa 335 has no distinct antagonistic qualities against bradykinin .
the anticholinergic effects of wa 335 are dependent on the test object .
in examinations on the bronchus of the guinea pig and the pupil of the mouse , the atropine-like efficiency corresponds to that of cyproheptadine ; it is stronger on the stimulated vagus of the cat and less efficient than cyproheptadine on the stomach of the rat .
wa 335 has distinct central atropine-like properties .
it possesses a strong surface anesthetic activity .
the effects of wa 335 on circulation are dependent on species .
in contrast to pimethixene , compound wa 335 like cyproheptadine potentiates the effects of norepinephrine in cats .
the reduction of the carotid sinus reflex in the cat is more distinct after wa 335 than after pimethixene and corresponds to that produced by cyproheptadine .
higher doses of wa 335 than are necessary to demonstrate antaminic effects are needed to provoke central nervous effects .
wa 335 shows no analgesic potency in mice .
the influence on body temperature in the rat is similar to that of cyproheptadine .
wa 335 is equally efficient as pimethixene with regard to the inhibition of spontaneous motility and prolongation of barbiturate sleep in mice , and shows the same anti-emetic activity as does chlorpromazine in dogs .
in contrast to chlorpromazine the behaviour of dogs and cats is distinctly altered already by doses of wa 335 which cause a slight sedation .
[ central action of wa-335-bs , a substance with peripheral antiserotonin and antihistaminic activity ] .
in rats and mice the serotonin and histamine antagonistic drug 9,10-dihydro-10- ( 1-methyl-4-piperidylidene ) -9-anthrol ( wa 335-bs ) caused stronger central sedative effects than did cyproheptadine .
wa 335-bs also displayed stronger activity against reserpine- and central tremorine-induced effects than did cyproheptadine and it slightly enhanced d-amphetamine-induced effects : therefore it may have antidepressant properties .
wa 335-bs proved to be very effective against isolation-induced aggression in male mice .
the comparatively small anxiolytic effects may have been caused in part by the central antiserotonin properties .
like cyproheptadine , wa 335-bs increased food consumption in cats .
in eeg-experiments in the conscious rabbit the serotonin-antagonistic drugs wa 335-bs and cyproheptadine exerted stronger depressant activity on the arousal reactions than did the neuroleptic chlorpromazine .
the results of our animal studies suggest wa 335-bs to be an antidepressant with sedative properties .
the distribution and elimination of radioactivity in the rat after administration of 14c-4-acetamidophenyl-2-acetoxybenzoate ( benorylate ) .
following oral administration of 4-acetamido-phenyl-2-acetoxybenzoate ( carboxyl-14c ) ( benorylate ) to rats , no gross differences were detected 7.5 h after administration with respect to the distribution of 14c in various tissues , including the upper sections of the small intestine .
a high concentration of 14c was found in the lower sections of the intestine 4 h after administration .
the 14c in the intestine was present as unchanged benorylate , as detected by thin-layer chromatography , suggesting that benorylate absorption was slow .
intravenous injection of 14c-benorylate to rats showed that the drug had a relatively high elimination rate from the blood with a half-life of 1.9 h .
in blood benorylate must be rapidly hydrolysed enzymatically since no 14c-metabolites , other than salicylic acid , could be detected .
comparative studies of parasympatholytic drugs on stomach ( double blind test ) and analysis of relation between gastric form and tonus .
effects of 3 kinds of parasympatholytic drugs ( timepidiumbromide , hyoscine-n-butylbromide and prifinium-bromide ) and placebo ( physiological saline solution ) on the gastrointestinal tract were evaluated roentgenographically by double blind technique in a total of 101 male human subjects .
the results may briefly be summarized as follows : 1. there were significant differences on hypotonic rate being one of the indexes of the gastric tonus between timepidium-bromide and placebo .
the effects of 3 experimental drugs were significantly high as compared with that of placebo on peristaltic movement of the stomach .
the effect of timepidium-bromide was significantly different from that of placebo on the site of arrival of barium .
2. the comparison of degrees of the gastric tonus between main and control tests revealed that the effect of placebo obtained in the main test was significantly inferior to that of hyoscine-n-butylbromide obtained in the control test , whereas there existed no significant differences of the effects among 3 active drugs .
3. effects of each drug on the gastric tonus which was scored by hypertonic , normotonic and hypotonic state were evaluated by stratification .
the result showed that the effect of timepidium-bromide was significantly greater than that of placebo .
4. all active drugs were not significantly different in terms of 7 observed values each on the gastric form .
[ treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency with fungal lipase ( author's transl ) ] .
7 patients suffering from severe exocrine pancreatic insufficiency have been treated with a lipolytic enzyme extracted from rhizopus arrhizus .
comparing the fungal lipase with a placebo the drug lowered the daily stool weight from 809 g to 443 g on an average , i.e. by 45.2 % .
the steatorrhea was reduced from 75.6 g/24 h to 32.9 g , i.e. by 56.5 % .
when incubating the enzyme in vitro in saline solutions of different ph for 1 h the loss of lipolytic activity is 13 % at ph 5 , 15 % at ph 4 , and 19 % at ph 3 .
so the enzyme , like fungal proteases , is almost not altered by hydrochloric acid at concentrations found physiologically in the stomach .
study of the sporulation of bacillus thuringiensis var. thuringiensis .
during the submerged cultivation of bacillus thuringiensis var. thuringiensis in 300- and 3000-liter fermentors , lysis occurred at the end of the exponential phase of growth .
new vegetative cells were subsequently formed which usually sporulated .
at time of lysis , the amount of soluble sugar was 1-12 g/liter , ph value dropped to 5.3-5.8 from the original ph 6.8 and started to rise after all the cells had lysed .
the proteolytic activity was low during the lysis and increased as the sporulation commenced .
[ antisecretory and anti-gastric ulcer activity of a tranquilizing-parasympatholytic combination ] .
a double-blind controlled therapeutic trial of lorazepam vs medazepam in psychosomatic conditions in general practice .
angioneurotic oedema with alclofenac therapy .
some observations on the effects produced in white mice following the injection of certain suspensions of corroding bacilli .
strictly anaerobic and facultatively anaerobic strains of `` corroding bacilli '' failed to produce any pathological symptoms when injected into white mice and no viable organisms could be recovered after 7 days .
however , when these same strains were coupled with certain other living bacteria or certain sterile bacterial extracts , lesions developed from which corroding bacilli could be isolated even after 21 days .
lysosomal hydrolases of the epidermis .
3. peptide hydrolases .
four distinct peptide hydrolases ( ec 3-4 ) have been characterized in guinea-pig epidermis ; these are cathepsin b1 , cathepsin c , cathepsin d and arylamidase .
their properties are consistent with those of lysosomal enzymes .
cathepsin e was not detected .
micellar solubilization of fatty acids in aqueous media containing bile salts and phospholipids .
1. the solubility of fatty acids in aqueous media containing bile salts alone and in admixture with either lecithin ( phosphatidylcholine ) or phosphatidylethanolamine was determined .
2. over the ph range 2-0-7-4 , the order of fatty acid solubility in aqueous solutions containing bile salts was linoleic greater than oleic greater than elaidic greater than palmitic greater than stearic .
the solubility of each fatty acid increased as the ph of the miceus solutions of bile salts greatly increased the solubility of palmitic acid and stearic acid .
4. in the presence of bile salts and lecithin , the solubility of oleic acid and elaidic acid decreased with increasing ph of the micellar solution , indicating a competitive effect between the fatty acid anions and lecithin .
the solubility of linoleic acid increased linearly with lecithin concentration .
5. phosphatidylethanolamine as an additive to bile salts increased the solubility of both saturated and unsaturated fatty acids in the ph range 2-3-7-4 .
the effectiveness of phosphatidylethanolamine as an amphiphile was similar to that of lecithin , although at ph 3.0 fatty acid solubility was greater in the presence of phosphatidylethanolamine .
6. the significance of these findings is discussed in relation to the intestinal absorption of fatty acids in sheep .
influence of the products of phospholipolysis of phosphatidylcholine on micellar solubilization of fatty acids in the presence of bile salts .
1. the solubility of fatty acids in aqueous solutions containing bile salts and lysolecithin at ph values between 2-0 and 7-4 was studied .
both the 1-acyl and 2-acyl isomers of lysolecithin increased the solubility of fatty acids to the same extent , the order of solubility being linoleic greater than oleic greater than elaidic greater than palmitic greater than stearic .
2. the influence of the products of phospholipolysis of lecithin on palmitic acid solubility was determined .
on a molar basis , lysolecithin was more effective than were bile salts in promoting the solubilization of the fatty acid .
3. in bile salt solutions in which the phospholipid concentration was constant on a molar basis , in solubility of palmitic acid decreased linearly with the progressive replacement of lecithin by lysolecithin .
palmitic acid was solubilized to the same extent on replacing lecithin with lysolecithin on a constant weight basis .
4. in bile salt solution containing lysolecithin and oleic acid in equimolar amounts , the solubility of palmitic acid was similar to that in bile salt solution containing lecithin in equivalent proportion .
5. the results are discussed in relation to the action of phospholipolytic activity on the intestinal absorption of fatty acids in sheep .
the purification and characterization of the low molecular weight human folate binding protein using affinity chromatography .
the low molecular weight folate binding protein ( fabp ) has been purified 1000-fold to a specific activity of 7.2 gamma g of pteroylglutamic acid ( pga ) bound per mg of protein .
this purified fabp represents two protein bands that bind pga on polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoreis , elutes from deae-cellulose in 0.001 m phosphate buffer , stains positive with pas , elutes from concanavalin a sepharose affinity columns with methyl alpha-mannoside , and shows three major peaks ( pl =6.8 , 7.5 , 8.2 ) by isotric focusing .
the binding of pga to purified fabp dependent on ph and is inhibited by urea ...
studies on iga and iga monoclonal proteins derived from a single patient .
evidence for identical light chains and variable regions of the heavy chain .
two immunoglobulins , iga ( k ) and igg ( k ) , were isolated from the serum of a single patient with two monoclonal components ( biclonal proteins ) .
after chain separation , the light chains from each molecule were found to be identical by the following criteria : electrophoretic mobilities under various ph and dissociating conditions , amino acid compositon , fingerprint analysis of tryptic peptides and of 14c-succinylated chymotryptic peptides , and amino acid sequence of the n-terminal 40 residues .
the heavy chains were indistinguishable for the n-terminal 45 amino acid residues .
these data are consistent with the hypothesis that a single heavy chain variable ( vh ) region may be associated with two different heavy chain constant ( ch ) genes .
conformational properties of bovine plasma albumin with a cleaved internal peptide bond .
as shown previously , proteinases frequently associated with plasma albumin samples catalyze a very limited and specific cleavage of the albumin molecule when it exists in the f conformational state near ph 3.7 .
the primary proteolytic product , bpa , has a molecular weight similar to or identical with that of the parent protein but yields two large fragments of molecular weight approximately 46000 and 23000 on reduction .
evidence is presented here that cleavage occurs within the disulfide loop between cys390 and cys434 with no detectable loss of small peptides , the amino acid composition of bpa being identical with that of the parent protein within experimental error .
cleavage exposes a new amino-terminal phenylalanine residue and may occur at the glx392-phe393 bond although the possibility exists that it occurs at another x-phe bond in the unsequenced region of residues 400-402 .
the damaged protein has a somewhat altered secondary structure as judged from optical rotatory dispersion and circular dichroism measurements , probably an approximate 15 % loss in helicity .
the hydrodynamic volume is increased by approximately 20 % .
however , various physical studies indicate the tertiary structure to be strikingly similar to that of the native protein .
of most significance is the fact that the protein still undergoes the n-f and n-b transitions , although in both cases they occur at somewhat more moderate ph than in the parent protein .
moreover a sensitivity of the n-b transition to ca2+ is still seen and binding behavior toward the dye 8-anilino-1-naphthalenesulfonic acid is essentially unaltered .
the results are best understood in terms of the concept of a multidomain structure which has been suggested frequently for plasma ablumin .
bond cleavage damages one domain but leaves the overall structure essentially unaltered except for some weakening of the interaction between domains .
detection and partial characterization of lipoprotein lipase in bovine aorta .
extracts of acetone-ether powders of bovine thoracic aorta contain lipase activity which has an alkaline ph maximum ( 7.8-8.4 ) and is stimulated 4-10-fold by adding serum or isolated apolipoprotein-glutamate to the assay mixture .
serum activation is completely reversed by isolated apolipoprotein-serine or apolipoprotein-alanine .
lipolysis is strongly inhibited by nacl ( 0.5 m ) and protamine sulfate ( 1 mg/ml ) and partially inhibited by heparin .
based on these characteristics , the lipase is identified as lipoprotein lipase .
purine nucleotide pyrophosphotransferase from streptomyces morookaensis , capable of synthesizing pppapp and pppgpp .
purine nucleotide pyrophosphotransferase was purified to apparent homogeneity from a culture filtrate of streptomyces morookaensis .
it is a monomeric protein with a molecular weight of 24 000-25 000 , and its isoelectric point is 6.9 .
the enzyme synthesizes purine nucleoside 5'-phosphate ( mono , di , or tri ) 3'-diphosphates such as pppapp , ppapp , papp , pppgpp , ppgpp and pppipp by transferring a pyrophosphoryl group from the 5'-position of atp , datp and ppapp to the 3'-position of purine nucleotides .
the purified enzyme catalysed the formation of 435 mumol of pppapp and 620 mumol of pppgpp from atp and gtp per min mg protein under the standard conditions .
the enzyme requires absolutely a divalent cation for activity , and optimum ph for the enzyme activity lay above 10 for mg2+ , for co2+ and zn2+ from 9 to 9.5 , and for fe2+ from 7.5 to 8 .
the following michaelis constants were determined : amp , 2.78 mm ; adp , 3.23 mm ; gmp , 0.89 mm ; gdp , 0.46 mm and gtp , 1.54 mm , in the case of atp donor .
the enzyme is inhibited by guanine , guanosine , dgdp , dgtp , n-bromosuccinimide , iodacetate , sodium borate and mercuric acetate .
protein kinase in cultured plant cells .
a protein kinase ( ec 2.7.1.37 ) which phosphorylates histones was purified partially from the soluble fractions of cultured plant cells .
the optimum ph was 7.5 to 9.0 .
the activity wasnot stimulated by exogeneous cyclic amp .
it was thermolabile and completely dependent on the presence of mg2+ or mn2+ for activity .
p-chloromercuribenzoate inactivated this enzyme and this inactivation was overcome by mercaptoethanol .
adenosine triphosphate : nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase of pig liver .
purification and properties .
adenosine triphosphate : nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase ( ec 2.7.7.1 ) has been purifiec approximately 3500-fold from an extract of pig liver nuclei to a specific activity of 40 mumol of nad+ per min per mg protein .
the enzyme was found to have a molecular weight of 203 000 , a frictional ratio of 1.6 and an isoelectric point of approximately 5 .
michaelis constants for atp and nmn were 0.11 mm and 0.12 mm , respectively .
phospholipase a2 isoenzyme from porcine pancreas .
purification and some properties .
porcine pancreas synthesizes a prephospholipase a2 which occurs in a 5 : 95 ratio compared with the more abundant zymogen of the same enzyme ( phosphatide-acylhydrolase ; ec 3.1.1.4 ) .
these two prephospholipases could be well separated by cm-cellulose chromatography .
both the active and the zymogen form of the isoenzyme were isolated and purified .
the activation peptides of both prephospholipases appeared to be identical , while the active enzymes showed a few interesting differences .
the most striking differences were the loss of one histidine and one methionine in the isoenzyme , corresponding to residues 24 and 27 , respectively , in alpha-phospholipase a2 .
the positional and stereo specificity of both enzymes are the same , but the specific activity of the beta-phospholipase a2 is lower .
the molecular weight of the isoenzyme was estimated to be about 14 000 , while the isoelectric points were 5.1 and 5.9 for the isoprecursor and active isoenzyme , respectively .
cylic nucleotide phosphodiesterase in silkworm .
characterization of cyclic gmp phosphodiesterase .
the existence of cyclic gmp phosphodiesterase ( ec 3.1.4.- ) was demonstrated in silkworm larva by gel filtration of the homogenate .
the cyclic gmp phosphodiesterase was separated from cyclic amp phosphodiesterases by column chromatography on hydroxyapatite and sephadex g-200 .
the enzyme has a molecular weight of approx. 260 000 , and optimum ph of 8.3 and a km value of 2 mum .
the enzyme is activated by 5 mm of mg2+ and 2 mm of mn2+ .
the cyclic gmp phosphodiesterase activity was greatly inhibited by low concentrations of cyclic imp but to a lesser extent by cyclic amp even at a high concentration .
the activity was also inhibited by caffeine and theophylline .
glucanases in schizosaccharomyces .
isolation and properties of an exo-beta-glucanase from the cell extracts and culture fluid of schizosaccharomyces japonicus var. versatilis .
( 11 cell extracts and extracellular culture fluids of species of the yeast genus schizosaccharomyces exhibited exo-beta- ( 1 leads to 3 ) - and exo-beta- ( 1 leads to 6 ) -glucanase ( ec 3.2.1.- ) activities .
( 2 ) using a combination of sephadex g-100 and deae-cellulose chromatography , the exo-beta- ( 1 leads to 3 ) -glucanases from the cell extracts and culture fluid of schizosaccharomyces japonicus var. versatilis were purified extensively .
the enzymes from either location exhibited similar purification and other properties .
( 3 ) the purified enzymes hydrolysed the beta- ( 1 leads to 6 ) -glucosidic linkage in addition to the beta- ( 1 leads to 3 ) linkage .
heat denaturation , inhibition and electrophoretic studies indicated that both hydrolytic activities were properties of a single protein .
laminarin and pustulan hydrolysis followed michaelis-menten kinetics .
the km and v for laminarin hydrolysis were 6.25 mg/ml and 350 mumol of glucose released/min/mg protein , and for pustulan they were 166 mg/ml and 52 mumol of glucose released/min/mg protein .
( 4 ) the exo-beta-glucanase was assigned a molecular weight of 43 000 .
( 5 ) the purified enzyme failed to hydrolyse isolated cell walls from either baker's yeast or schizosaccharomyces pombe or to induce protoplast formation from intact cells of s. japonicus var. versatilis or saccharomyces cerevisiae .
purification and some properties of a novel maltohexaose-producing exo-amylase from aerobacter aerogenes .
maltohexaose producing amylase ( ec 3.2.1.- ) is the fourth known exo-amylase , the three previously known being glucoamylase , beta-amylase and pseudomonas stutzeri maltotetraose producing amylase .
the enzyme after release from aerobacter aerogenes cells by 0.1 % sodium lauryl sulfate extraction was purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation , deae-sephadex column chromatography and sephadex g-100 gel filtration to 80-fold of the original sodium lauryl sulfate extract activity , it gave a single band on disc electrophoresis , and the molecular weight by gel filtration was 54 000 .
this amylase showed maximal activity at 50 degrees c and ph 6.80 .
the ph stability range was relatively wide , the enzyme retaining more than 90 % of its initial activity in the range of 6.50-9.0. 80 % of the activity was retained after 15 min at 50 degrees c .
this enzyme produced maltohexaose from starch , amylose and amylopectin by exo-attack , but did not act on alpha- or beta-cyclodextrin , pullulan or maltohexaitol .
also the enzyme acted on beta-limit dextrins of amylopectin and glycogen to form branched oligosaccharides .
the unusual reaction of this enzyme on beta-limit dextrin is discussed from the standpoint of the stereochemistry of 1,4-alpha- and 1,6-alpha-glucosidic bonds .
this is the anomalous amylase for which it is recognized that 1,6-alpha-glucosidic linkages in the substrates can mimic the effect of 1,4-alpha-bonds , as previously observed in pseudo-priming reactions of e. coli phosphorylase .
inhibition of human liver beta-galactosidases and beta-glucosidase by n-bromoacetyl-beta-d-galactosylamine .
n-bromoacetyl-beta-d-galactosylamine is an irreversible inhibitor of the 'acid ' and the 'neutral ' beta-galactosidases ( beta-d-galactoside galactohydrolase , ec 3.2.1.23 ) of human liver .
the inactivation of acid beta-galactosidase appears to involve a group with a pka = 4.5 .
the inhibition of neutral beta-galactosidase only occurs above ph 8.0 .
both enzymes are protected against inhibition by the presence of substrates , suggesting that the inhibitor reacts with the active site of the enzymes .
other lysosomal hydrolases are not inhibited by n-bromoacetyl-beta-d-galactosylamine , with the exception of 'neutral ' beta-glucosidase ( beta-d-glucoside glucohydrolase , ec 3.2.1.21 ) .
the ph dependence of neutral beta-glucosidase inactivation is essentially identical to that of the neutral beta-galactosidase .
inhibition of beta-glucosidase by this galactose derivative suggests that the same enzyme may bind glucosides and galactosides .
furthermore , both neutral beta-galactosidase and beta-glucosidase are inactivated at 52 degrees c with a half-life of 7.5 min .
the presence of a single enzyme with both beta-glucosidase and beta-galactosidase activities is also supported by mixed-substrate experiments .
endo-arabinanase from bacillus subtilis f-11 .
an arabinanase was purified from the culture fluid of bacillus subtilis f-11 .
the process was as follows : salting out by ( nh4 ) 2so4 , repeated chromatography on hydroxy apatite and gel filtration on sepharose-6b .
the purified enzyme was demonstrated to be homogeneous by disc electrophoresis .
the enzyme was found to be active on arabinan and 1,5-arabinan , but inactive on phenyl alpha-l-arabinofuranoside , p-nitrophenyl beta-d-galactopyranoside , arabinoxylan , gum arabic .
the enzyme released arabinose , arabinobiose , arabinotriose and higher oligosaccharides during the course of hydrolysis of 1,5-arabinan .
the end products were found to be arabinose and arabinobiose after 144 h of hydrolysis .
aminopeptidases in webbing clothes moth larvae .
properties and specificities of the enzymes of intermediate electrophoretic mobility .
the major group of aminopeptidases ( ec 3.4.11.- ) of intermediate electrophoretic mobility , from tineola bisselliella larvae , hav been fractionated into six bands by preparative polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the properties of these fractions investigated .
they resemble each other in their ph optima of 8.2 , their molecular weight of 240 000 , their responses to various active site inhibitors and metal cations , and their specificities towards seventeen l-amino-acyl-beta-naphthylamide substrates .
the derivatives of methionine , leucine , alanine , lysine , arginine and glutamic acid were those most rapidly hydrolysed .
they appear to be true aminopeptidases hydrolysing amino acid amides , dipeptides and oligopeptides from the n-terminal end .
studies on an activator of the ( ca2+ plus mg2+ ) -atpase of human erythrocyte membranes .
1. an activator of the ( ca2+ plus mg2+ ) -stimulated atpase present in the human erythrocytes ( membrane ) has been isolated in soluble form from hemolysates of these cells .
partial purification has been achieved through use of carboxymethyl-sephadex chromatography .
the resulting activator fraction contained no hemoglobin and only 0.3 % of the total adenylate kinase activity of the cell .
2. whereas the activator was released from erythrocytes subjected to hemolysis in 20 miosm buffer at ph 7.6 or at ph 5.8 , only the membranes prepared at ph 7.6 were affected by it .
2. whereas the activator was released from erythrocytes subjected to hemolysis in 20 miosm buffer at ph 7.6 or at ph 5.8 , only the membranes prepared at ph 7.6 were affected by it .
3. when ( ca2+ plus mg2+ ) -atpase activity was measured by 32pi release from ( gamma-32p ) atp , freeze-thawed erythrocytes , as well as membranes prepared at ph 5.8 and at ph 7.6 , expressed lower values than noted by assay for total pi release .
when adp instead of atp was used as substrate , significant amount of pi were released by these erythrocyte preparations .
further study revealed ( a ) production of atp and amp from adp with membranes and hemolysate alone , and ( b ) exchange of the gamma-and b-position phosphate on ( gama-32p ) atp in the presence of membranes plus hemolysates .
these observations established the presence of adenylate kinase activity in the ( membrane-free ) hemolysates and in membranes .
it further supports the conclusion that pi release from adp by human erythrocytes ( freeze-thawed ) and by their isolated membranes is due to formation of atp by adenylate kinase and hydrolysis of this generated atp by ( ca2+ plus mg2+ ) -atpase .
4. the following points were also established : ( a ) absence of an adpase in human erythrocytes ; ( b ) the ( ca2+ plus mg2+ ) -atpase activator enhanced cleavage only of the gama-position of atp and ( c ) the ( ca2+ plus mg2+ ) -atpase activator is neither adenylate kinase nor hemoglobin .
[ acid and alkaline denaturation of superoxide dismutase ] .
optical and esr spectra of erythrocyte superoxide dismutase denaturated with acid and alkali are described .
sharp changes in activity and spectra were found .
`` residual '' activity of alkaline denaturated protein was higher than of acidic denaturated sample .
it is suggested that covalent bonding copper-nitrogen is essential for superoxide dismutase activity of the protein or synthetic copper complexes .
[ light scattering by cell suspensions in normal conditions and exposed to external factors ] .
the characteristics of light scattering of cell suspensions in norm ( ph 7,2 , t=20degreesc ) and upon external influences ( change of ph and increase of tdegree ) .
the turbidity tauapproximatelylambda-n and n=0,2 -- 0,3 for cells in norm .
after cell damage n increases .
dependence of n correlates with the increase of some injured cells determined by eozin test .
alterations of light scattering after cell damage were connected with the increase of deposit of intercellular structure in general scattering .
[ letter : change in trypsin sensitivity during structural rearrangements in biological membranes ] .
absorption of rat liver ribosomal ribonucleic acids on agar gels .
[ the fragmentation and reconstruction of the oligomycin-sensitive atpase system of liver mitochondria ] .
the protein and proteolipid complexes and oligomycin insensitive soluble atpase were prepared from rat liver mitochondria .
the incubation of soluble atpase with protein and proteolipid complexes resulted in restoration of atpase sensitivity to oligomycin at room temperature .
the process of reconstruction depended on ph , incubation time , temperature and other conditions .
[ study of acetyl-coa-synthetase from staphylococcus aureus ] .
acetyl-coa-synthetase was isolated from cells of st. aureus 209-p .
the method of isolation and partial purification of the enzyme is worked out .
km values of the enzyme for acetate , coa and atp are calculated .
p-chloromercuribenzoate and monoiodoacetate were shown to inhibit the enzyme activity .
the enzyme activity is estimated depending on the age of the cell culture and on the presence of acetate in the culture medium .
[ effect of prosthetic group of horseradish peroxidase on enzyme stability ] .
constants of inactivation rate of horseradish peroxidase ( hrp ) apo-hrp and apo-hrp-protoporphyrin ( pp ) are estimated at the ph range 2.8-12.8 and 25 degrees c .
two ionogenic groups ( acid and alkaline ) are detected on cases of hrp and apo-hrp , which are responsible for stable hrp conformation .
hrp stability within the ph range 5-10 exceeded 30 times that of apo-hrp , while the stability apo-hrp-pp complex is similar to that of apo-hrp .
the data obtained show that formation of complex of apo-hrp with pp , an analogue of the prostetic group lacking central fe atom , practically does not affect the stability of hrp protein globula at ph 5-10 , but significantly stabylized apo-hrp at the extreme ph values .
the complex formation of apo-hrp with active prosthetic group - hemin - results on the stable conformation of the hrp protein globula , which suggests a determining role of fe ion - porphyrin complex ( hemin ) on the support of the stable hrp structure .
[ wheat protein disulfide reductase ] .
proteindisulphide reductase is isolated and partially purified from wheat seedlings and some properties of the enzyme are studied : ph optimum is 7.4 ; temperature optimum - 37 degrees c ; km = 2.6-10 ( -4 ) m for the substrate ( wheat albumin ) ; km = 7.5-10 ( -5 ) m for coenzyme ( nadp-h ) .
the enzyme is specific for nadp-h and is not active in the presence of nad-h .
maximal activity of proteindisulphide reductase is developed in anaerobic conditions .
a technique of the estimation of proteindisulphide reductase activity using wheat albumin as a substrate is worked out .
the enzyme activity decreases regularly in the corn ripening and increases under germination .
it is accompanied by the respective increase or decrease in the amount of disulphide bonds in gluten protein and by changes of physico-chemical characteristics of gluten .
incubation of gluten with the enzyme preparation affects reological properties of gluten ( it becomes weaker ) and decreases the gluten viscosity of gluten solution .
[ modification of pancreatic ribonuclease activity in complexes with polyanions ] .
carboxymethylcellulose , carboxymethylchitin , sulfoethylcellulose and dextrane sulfate interact with pancreatic ribonuclease .
in comparison with ribonuclease activity the activity of formed complexes changes differently at the stages of transesterification and hydrolysis , and at each stage the effect of polymers on ribonuclease activity essentially differs .
the use of ribonuclease-dextrane sulfate complex in the reaction of uridylyl- ( 3 ' leads to 5 ' ) -cytidine synthesis demonstrated that the protein synthetic activity completely retained when hydrolytic activity was considerably suppressed .
[ kinetics and mechanism of action of horseradish peroxidase in the reaction of dioxyfumaric acid oxidation with atmospheric oxygen ] .
quantitative kinetic data are given on the oxidation reaction of dioxyfumaric acid ( dfa ) with atmospheric oxygen in the presence of horseradish peroxidase ( hrp ) depending on ph .
activation constants of oxidation with hydrogen peroxide and mn ions are determined at ph 3.0 .
autocatalytic character of fra oxidation is shown to be due to the formation of h2o2 and other hydro peroxide-type compounds in the reaction , hrp convertions in the dfa -- o2 system are studied using spectrophotometry .
a mechanism of the initiation of free radicals in hrp -- dfa -- o2 system is proposed .
[ some physical and chemical properties of serinesulfhydrase from chicken liver ] .
an improved procedure of purification of serinesulfhydrase from chicken liver is described .
preparations of enzyme ( 700-fold purification with the yield of 40 per cent from total activity ) have been obtained homogeneous on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
molecular weight of serinesulfhydrase is 90.000 ; 1 mole of enzyme contains 2 moles of pyridoxalphosphate and consists apparently of 2 subunits .
amino acid composition of the enzyme is studied .
absorption spectrum of serinesulfhydrase has a maximum at 430 nm what is characteristic of numerous pyridoxal-p enzymes .
the position of this maximum does not depend on ph ( within its range 6 -- 10 ) and the presence of l-serine , a primary enzyme substrate .
an essential change in the absorption spectrum of enzyme was observed in the presence of some thiol compound -- dl-homocysteine , beta-mercaptoethanol and glutathione ( cosubstrates of the reaction ) and l-cysteine ( a primary reaction substrate ) .
it is suggested that this change in the spectrum is due to the action of sh-compounds on the enzyme conformation before the beginning of the enzymatic reaction or on its initial stages .
[ specificity of extracellular alkaline rnaase from penicillium chrysogenum 152a ] .
specificity of chromatographically homogenous extracellular alkaline rnaase from pen. crysogenum 152a on rna , synthetic polynucleotides , dinucleosidemonophosphates and nucleoside-2',3'-cyclophosphates is studied .
the enzyme is found to release from rna guanosine-3'-monophosphate and guanosine-2',3'-cyclophosphate only .
guanylic acid is a 3'-terminal nucleotide of oligonucleotides of different length .
the enzyme readily hydrolyses poly-i and practically do not splits poly-g .
gpn is demonstrated to be a good substrate for the rnase , while g greater than p hydrolyses with a low rate .
the rnaase catalyses the synthesis of gpc ( 47.7 per cent yield ) and gpu ( 38.8 per cent yield ) .
thus , the rnaase from pen. chrysogenum 152a is considered to be guanyl-rnaase .
[ intermediate plateaux in kinetics of the reaction catalyzed by biodegradative l-threonine dehydratase from escherichia coli ] .
it has been shown that for the reaction catalyzed by `` biodegradative '' l-threonine dehydratase from e. coli strains k-12 and 980 in 0.5 m phosphate-carbonate buffer , ph 8.4 and ph 9.5 , the plots of initial reaction rate ( v ) versus the initial substrate concentration ( [ s ] 0 are characterized by several inflection points , i. e. an intermediate plateau .
the plot of v versus the allosteric activator ( amp ) concentration have very complicated shapes : there are several inflection points , and also the maximum at l-threonine concentration equal to 3-10 ( 2 ) and 5-10 ( -2 ) m .
high amp concentrations inhibit the enzyme at high substrate concentrations .
the reduced glutathion dose not influence the enzyme and does not alter the activating effect of amp .
on the basis of the data obtained it is proposed that the substrate and amp shift the equilibrium between multiple oligomeric enzyme forms differing in catalytic activity and kinetic manifestations of allosteric interactions between the active and allosteric amp-binding sites towards polymerization .
thus , the functioning the enzyme under study is discussed in the frames of the model of dissociating regulatory enzymes with multiple intermediate oligomeric forms .
[ isoenzymes of phosphorylase from skeletal muscles of cyclostomata and raw-boned fish ] .
separation and partial purification of isoenzymes of phosphorylase b from skeletal muscles of lamprey ( lampetra ) and carp ( cyprinus carpio ) was carried out .
isoenzyme i was adsorbed on deae cellulose and eluted by kcl ; isoenzyme ii was not adsorbed on deae cellulose .
a number of kinetic characteristics of phosphorylase of the coldblooded were determined , e. g .
km values for glucose-1-phosphate , glycogen and amp ; ki for glucose-6-phosphate ; stability towards denaturation ( heating and effect of urea ) and ph optimum .
it was observed that in the course of evolution of vertebrates the km values for substrates and allosteric activator ( amp ) , as well as the inhibition by glucose-6-phosphate showed a decrease .
isoenzymes i and ii of phosphorylase b were found non-identical with respect to some molecular characteristics , in carp the differences being far more pronounced than in lamprey .
[ multiple forms of rabbit muscle phosphofructokinase revealed by means of specific elution ] .
the modified procedure for rabbit skeletal muscle phosphofructokinase ( pfk ) purification is worked out utioizing the method of specific elution from deae-cellulose in 0.1 m tris-edta-phosphate ph 8.0 with 10 mm citrate .
by the latter procedure pfk can be resolved into fractions a , b and c which are eluted specifically , with 0.3 m buffer and with 1.5 m nacl respectively .
rechromatography of each fraction reveals their interconvertibility .
the preparations are characterized by disc electrophoresis and velocity sedimentation .
the results of formalinization experiments demonstrate that high concentrations of formaldehyde dissociate pfk u to the 5.3 s component .
the presence of the 19.3 s component in the formalinized preparations evidences against the possibility that the middle component , presented at the schlieren patterns of pfk at ph 8.0 , is and artifact of superposition .
complex profiles of protein distribution observed in different transport experiments are discussed from the point of view of slow equilibrium of oligomers and conformers characteristic to pfk over the ph range from 6 to 9 .
[ flourescent properties of histidine decarboxylase from micrococcus sp. n ] .
a dependency of fluorescence parameters of histidinedecarboxylase ( hdc ) from micrococcuc sp. n. on ph values is studied .
native hds has a short-waved maximum position ( 325 nm ) and a small half-width of the fluorescence spectrum ( 48nm ) .
the change in the quantum yield of the enzyme fluorescence was parallel with the change of the enzymatic activity .
triptophane residues of native hdc are located at hydrophobic region of the enzyme globula .
the dependency of hdc flourescence parameters on ph values in 8 m urea was similar to that of free triptophane .
a comparative study of fluorescences parameters of hdc and its inhibitory complexes with methyl ester of histidine ( meh ) , hydroxylamine and p-chloromercuriumbensoate is carried out .
the effect of hdc interacting with inhibitors on fluorescence parameters of the enzyme is discussed .
no differences were found in infra-red spectra of hdc and its inhibitory complex with meh .
[ activity of polynucleotide phosphorylase in ribosomal fraction of rat liver ] .
a method of isolating polynucleotidephosphorylase ( pnpase ) containing polyribosome fraction from rat liver is described .
pnpase is found to be bind to rna in polyribosomes with weak electrostatic bonds which are easily broken down in a weak alkaline medium with ionic strength more than 0.1 beta-22p-labelled adp , gdp , udp and cdp are found among the products of endogenous rna degradation in the fraction of total polyribosomes in the presence of 32p-orthophosphate .
a considerable change in the base composition of pnp-degraded rna is observed at different incubation times of total polyribosomes with 32p-orthophosphate : g+c//a+u ratio increased from 2.3 to 3.1 , and purines/pyrimidines ratio-from 0.47 to 1.06 with the increase of the incubation time .
specific activity of pnp in ribosome fractions obtained under ultracentrifugation of total polyribosomes in succrose density gradient ( 0.3-1.0 m ) increased in the direction from the fraction of heavy polysomes to trimers and dimers and then dropped at the region of monomers ( 80 s particles ) .
the data obtained give no possibility to determine the type of pnp-bound rna in polyribomes of rat liver .
[ the effect of oxidazable substrates and atp on the sensitivity of certain energy-dependent functions submitochondrial particles to phospholipases a , c and d ] .
the effect of nadh , succinate and atp on the sensitivity of a number of energy-dependent functions of submitochondrial particles ot phospholipases a , c and d has been studied .
it has been shown that in the conditions of oxidation of nadh and succinate by oxygen and also of atp hydrolysis , the decrease in the phosphorylating activity of the particles under the action of phospholipases c and d accelerates .
no such acceleration has been observed with phospholipase a .
for other two functions , i. e. reverse electron transfer ( atp-dependent nad+ reduction by succinate ) and atp-dependent transhydrogenase reaction the results proved to be different .
oxidizable substrates and atp promoted the maintenance of these functions in the presence of phospholipase a , but did not retard their suppression by phospholipases c and d .
the effects of nadh , succinate and atp on the sensitivity of different energy-dependent functions of submitochondrial particles to phospholipases a , c and d could be removed by the uncoupling agent carbonyl cyanide-m-chlorophenyl hydrazone .
the conclusion is made that the effects revealed are associated with an increase in the sensitivity of coupling sites ii pand/or iii to phospholipases c and d and with a decrease in the sensitivity of sites i and iv to phospholipase a on energization of submitochondrial particles .
the inhibition of the motility of human spermatozoa by various pharmacologic agents .
meeting report .
plastics in medicine and surgery .
raman studies of bovine serum albumin .
a model for the origin of stable protocells in a primitive alkaline ocean .
when a mixture of the eighteen proteinous amino acids are suitably heated in the dry state with seawater salts , a copolyamino acid results .
one fraction of this polymer is found , through isoelectric focusing , to consist of a mixture of acidic and basic proteinoids , each of sharply limited heterogeneity .
when one fraction of the seawater proteinoid is dissolved in hot water , and the solution is cooled , proteinoid microspheres result .
these have properties in common with simpler types , but also stable at ph values to 9 , in common with microspheres prepared by mixing acidic and basic proteinoids .
these processes thus constitute a simple model for the origin of a protocell stable in a primitive alkaline ocean .
hypothesis on the role of liganded states of proteins in energy transducing systems .
in energy transducing systems the direction of energy transfer is proposed to be maintained by the synchronized turnovers of the conformational change of one protein coupling up to affect another .
catalysis by those systems implies , therefore , that under new space restrictions the groups of the transducing enzyme increase and decrease reactivity between themselves , with activatory and/or inhibitory ligands ( h+ , h2o , metals , etc. ) and with the electron shells of the reactant molecules .
the exergonic reaction-dependent turnover of the forms of the enzyme within the transition complexes would be maintained , therefore , under asymmetric phase angles of conformational-dependent reactivity that would effectively restrict the microscopic reversibility of transducing systems .
some well known reactions , such as hemoglobins bohr effect , can be used to illustrate that microscopic ( molecular ) interactions subject to thermodynamic equilibria laws may similarly paricipate as driving forces in energy transducing sytems .
this would allow the thermodynamic description of the role of proton translocation as that of a modificatory force of the structural parameters of proteins .
similarly , the relationship between the liganded states of hemoglobin and its change in conformation has been used to develop an illustrative model relating changes in oxido-reduction of electron carriers to induced-fit effects leading to a sequence of atpase forms in transition complexes which become stabilized as high energy intermediates under the constraints imposed by the membrane of energy transducing organelles .
some properties of a protease ( subtilisin bpn ' ) immobilized to porous glass .
subtilisin bpn ' was immobilized to porous glass via isothiocyanate coupling .
the ph optimum of the enzyme was shifted to the alkaline side on binding .
this effect was more pronounced with ethyl lactate than with n-tosyl arginine methyl ester ( tame ) .
presumably , the shift is a reflection of the negative charge on the surface of the glass .
the michaelis constant and vmax of soluble subtilisin bpn ' with tame were two and one orders of magnitude , respectively , lower than with ethyl lactate .
vmax , calculated per g of active enzyme , with tame as the substrate was not affected by immobilization , while vmax with ethyl lactate decreased greater than tenfold .
the apparent km decreased on immobilization with ethyl lactate as substrate and increased with tame .
results are explained in terms of diffusional resistance and a possible attraction of ethyl lactate to the glass surface .
active site titration indicated that about 25 % of the immobilized enzyme was active .
profiles for ph , temperature , and dissolved o2 levels in enzyme production : monitoring in small-scale fermentors .
the profiles thus established may be utilized for investigations of an organism's relationship to its microenvironment including metabolic shifts and pathways .
areas of maximum respiratory activity , enzyme production , enzyme degradation , and attainment of the stationary phase are quite evident ; however , duration and magnitude of the various phenomena may change with nutrient , temperature , and aeration efficiency .
practical application of this simplified method would include : a ) determination of environmental conditions existing during maximum growth or enzyme synthesis and application of these conditions to feedback control ; b ) estimation of requirements for ph , oxygen , and heat removal capacities needed for scale-up ; c ) specific points during the fermentation at which samples should be analyzed to yield maximum information on depletion of nutrients and its effects on microbial activity .
[ action of neuraminidases isolated from diplococcus pneumoniae and clostridium perfringens on the viscosity and elastic properties of bronchial secretions ] .
the effect of sulphydryl compounds and cross linking agents on the viscous and viscoelastic properties of mucus .
the specificity of heterophil antibodies in patients and healthy donors with no or minimal signs of infectious mononucleosis .
over several years sera were collected from 14 heterophil-positive students or patients who did not fulfill minimal hematologic criteria for infectious mononucleosis ( i.m. ) the specificity of these heterophil reactions for i.m. was investigated by determining antibodies to epstein-barr virus-determined antigens , i.e. , to viral capsid antigens ( vca ) , early antigens ( ea ) , and ebv-associated nuclear antigens ( ebna ) .
on the basis of detectable anti-ea and/or the early absence and late emergence of anti-ebna , four of these 14 individuals showed evidence of a current or very recent primary epstein-barr virus infection .
the other ten patients showed antibody patterns indicative of epstein-barr virus infections in the past , and no firm conclusions could be drawn with regard to the specificity of their heterophil reactions .
it was assumed , however , that some represented atypical clinical forms of ebv infection and that timing of specimen collection was a factor in explaining the paucity of downey cells .
in three patients , the absorbed heterophil-positive reactions persisted with little change in titer for at least 22 mo and thus might represent false-positive tests .
bone marrow transplantation for aplastic anaemia from a hl-a and mlc-identical unrelated donor .
bone-marrow transplantation ( bmt ) from an unrelated , hl-a-phenotype-identical , mlc-negative donor was performed in a 31 year old woman with severe longlasting aplastic anemia .
in vitro assays failed to demonstrate humoral or cellular sensitization of the recipient against donor-type antigens .
following conditioning with cyclophosphamide , prompt but only transient engraftment of the transplant occurred accompanied by signs of mild graft-versus-host-disease ( gvhd ) of the liver .
the results of a second bone marrow transplantation from the same donor can not be evaluated due to early death of the recipient .
it is concluded that bone marrow from unrelated , hl-a and mlc-identical donors may engraft without severe gvhd .
rejection of the graft in our patient may have been related to greater antigenic differences that can be expected to exist between hl-a and mlc-identical unrelated individuals than between hl-a and mlc-identical siblings .
however , insufficient preparative immunosuppression with cyclophosphamide due to severe hepatic hemosiderosis appears equally likely as the cause of graft rejection .
the possibly increased risk of graft rejection or severe gvhd should not preclude the use of unrelated hl-a and mlc-identical marrow donors , when histocompatible sibling donors are not available ; but more potent immunosuppressive regimens than the cyclophosphamide protocol may be necessary to ensure permanent engraftment .
inhibitory effect of parathion on the photosynthetic electron transport system in isolated spinach chloroplasts .
modification of michael's method for determination of serum acetyl choline esterase activity .
physician extenders , protocols , and quality medical care .
stability studies of ampicillin in intravenous fluids using optical activity .
evidence for noradrenaline and adrenaline as sympathetic transmitters in the chicken .
1 the concentrations of noradrenaline and adrenaline in various organs , arterial plasma and venous outflow from isolated hearts of adult chickens have been determined .
2 the relative adrenaline concentrations ( percentage of the sum of noradrenaline and adrenaline ) in the heart ( 33 % ) , spleen ( 16 % ) and brain ( 26 % ) were higher than those found in mammalian organs .
chemical sympathectomy by pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine caused a decrease of the noradrenaline and adrenaline concentrations in the heart to 20 and 23 % and in the spleen to 16 and 29 % , respectively .
3 stimulation of the right sympathetic nerves , infusion of tyramine or infusion of a modified tyrode solution containing 108mm k+ and 44 mm na+ caused an output of both noradrenaline and adrenaline into the perfusate of isolated hearts .
the relative adrenaline concentration in the perfusate ( 20-28 % ) was not significantly different from the relative adrenaline concentration remaining in these hearts ( 19-22 % ) .
in the individual experiments , the noradrenaline : adrenaline ratios of the stimulation perfusates were positively correlated with the ratios found in the hearts .
4 the effects of noradrenaline and adrenaline on cardiac rate and tension development were studied in spontaneously beating right atria and electrically driven left atria , respectively .
in addition , the arterial pressure rise in response to noradrenaline or adrenaline was ; measured in chickens .
it was found that the cardio-vaseart rate , cardiac tension development and arterial blood pressure , was not significantly different from that of adrenaline .
5 it is concluded that , in the chicken heart and spleen , both noradrenaline and adrenaline act as sympathetic neutrotransmitters .
antiarrhythmic , haemodynamic and metabolic effects of 3alpha-amino-5alpha-androstan-2beta-ol-17-one hydrochloride in greyhounds following acute coronary artery ligation .
1 the antiarrhythmic , haemodynamic and metabolic effects of a new amino steroid , org6001 , have been investigated in experimental acute myocardial infarction in anaesthetized greyhounds .
2 org6001 administered either intravenously ( 2-10 mg/kg ) or orally ( 50 mg/kg ) significantly reduced the incidence of ventricular ectopic beats in the first 30 min after ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery .
3 in dogs pretreated with org6001 , metabolic changes indicative of myocardial ischaemia ( lactate production and potassium efflux ) were less marked than those occurring in control animals .
4 antiarrhythmic doses of org6001 caused only minimal transient haemodynamic effects .
5 these results suggest that org6001 may possess distinct advantages over presently-used antiarrhythmic drugs in the prevention and treatment of the early arrhythmias which occur after myocardial infarction .
the use of radioactive microspheres to compare the effects of hydralazine , guanethidine and sk & f 24260 on the redistribution of cardiac output in anaesthetized rabbits .
1 the use of radioactive microspheres is described for the measurement of cardiac output in anaesthetized rabbits and its redistribution after the administration of drugs which lower blood pressure .
2 hydralazine increased peripheral vascular conductance by 123 % .
the vascular beds in which it had most effect were those of the carcass ( mainly muscle ) and the kidneys .
3 sk & f 24260 , ( 1,4 dihydro-2 , 6-dimethyl-4 ( 2-trifluoremethylpheny ) -3,5 , -pyridinedicarboxylic acid diethyl ester ) , had similar vasocilator actions .
its effect in the carcass contributed relatively more to the increase of total peripheral conductance .
it also caused a remarkable degree of cerebral vasodilatation .
4 guanethidine had a relatively small effect on total peripheral conductance and lowered blood pressure mainly by reducing stroke volume and cardiac output .
impact of psychosocial factors on the conduct of combined drug and psychotherapy research .
the effect of attitudes of therapists , patients and researchers on the conduct and outcome of combined drug and psychotherapy research was examined in a brief crisis-oriented psychotherapy clinic .
seventy-seven consecutive patients were given one of two anti-anxiety drugs or a placebo in conjunction with the typical psychoanalytically-oriented treatment used in the clinic .
the therapists ' attitudes favouring psychotherapy over drug therapy ( and psychotherapy research ) were clearly conveyed to the patients .
indicative of this are the following : ( a ) 82 per cent of the patients dropped out of drug taking , although a similar percentage remained in treatment ; ( b ) only a third of the patients perceived it as being important to their therapists that they should take medication ; ( c ) 87 per cent of the patients were rated as improved ; and 75 per cent of patients completing forms considered that most or all of their improvement was attributable to talking .
the research team , made up of members of the same department who therefore had similar values as the therapists , diligently collected outcome data , but ignored its responsibility to enforce drug-relation portions of the protocol .
overall , patients remained in therapy , improved and participated in completing forms , so that only the research goals of combined therapy were thwarted , while traditional clinic service and training goals proceeded as usual .
letter : first-aid treatment of poisoning .
letter : ocular reactions to beta-blocking drugs .
editorial : bronchiectasis today .
`` syrup of ipecacuanha '' .
neurochemical studies in a mouse teratoma with neuroepithelial differentiation .
presence of cyclic amp , serotonin and enzymes of the serotonergic , adrenergic and cholinergic systems .
a transplantable mouse testicular teratoma ( ott 6050 ) which displays a spectrum of neuroepithelial differentiation was evaluated biochemically for concentrations of cyclic amp ( camp ) , serotonin ( 5-ht ) , and enzymes involved in the metabolism of the biogenic amines and acetylcholine .
these values were compared between teratomas with neuroepithelial differentiation as the major or minor component and brains of neonatal and adult mice of related strains .
camp , 5-ht , tryptophan hydroxylase ( tph ) , aromatic amino acid decarboxylase ( aadc ) and monoamine oxidase ( mao ) were present .
in addition , enzymes of the adrenergic system , i.e. tyrosine hydroxylase ( th ) and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase ( dbh ) , and of the cholinergic system , i.e. choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase , were studied .
biochemical differences in tumor groups probably reflected variations in the proportion of neuroepithelial components : trends suggested an increase of camp and an increased activity of tph , aadc , th and dbh in tumors with increased proportions of neuroepithelial cells .
these findings indicate that the neuroepithelial component of the mouse teratoma may serve as a model for the study of neuronal differentiation in primitive neuroepithelial neoplasms .
trans-synaptic regulation of the development of end organ innervation by sympathetic neurons .
to examine the regulation of development of end organ innervation the superior cervical ganglion ( scg ) , and two of its target organs , the iris and pineal gland , were studied using biochemical and histofluorescent approaches .
during postnatal ontogeny the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase ( t-oh ) , which is localized to adrenergic neurons , increased 50-fold in iris , and 34-fold in pineal nerve terminals of the rat .
these increases paralleled the in vitro rise in iris [ 3h ] norepinephrine ( [ 3h ] ne ) uptake , a measure of the presence of functional nerve terminal membrane .
these biochemical indices of end organ innervation correlated well with developmental increases in density of innervation , adrenergic ground plexus ramification and nerve fiber fluorescence intensity as determined by fluorescence microscopy .
unilateral transection of the presynaptic cholinergic nerves innervating the scg in 2-3-day-old rats prevented the normal development of end organ innervation : t-oh activity , [ 3h ] ne uptake , innervation density , plexus ramification and fluorescence intensity failed to develop normally in irides innervated by decentralized ganglia .
it is concluded that trans-synaptic factors regulate the maturation of adrenergic nerve terminals , and the development of end organ innervation by scg .
mechanism of action of mg2+ and zn2+ on rat placental alkaline phosphatase .
i. studies on the soluble zn2+ and mg2+ alkaline phosphatases .
rat placental alkaline phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.1 ) , a dimer of 135,000 daltons , is strongly activated by mg2+ .
however , zn2+ has to be present on the apoenzyme to obtain this activation .
mg2+ alone is unable to reconstitute functional active sites .
excess zn2+ which competes for the mg2+ site leads to a phosphatase with little catalytic activity at alkaline ph but with normal active sites at acidic ph as shown by covalent incorporation of ortho- [ 32p ] phosphate .
two enzyme species with identical functional active sites have been reconstituted that only differ by the presence of zn2+ or mg2+ at the effector site .
a mechanism is presented by which alkaline phosphatase activity of rat placenta would be controlled by a molecular process involving the interaction of mg2+ and zn2+ with the dimeric enzyme molecule .
porcine chymotrypsin a-pi , a more acidic chymotrypsin .
a kinetic study of procine chymotrypsin a-pi revealed two characteristic properties of this type of chymotrypsin : 1. porcine chymotrypsin a-pi , like bovine chymotrypsin b-pi does not bind proflavin , which is a competitive inhibitor of bovine trypsin and chymotrypsin a-alpha .
2. the ph profiles of the steady-state parameters show the two usual important pk's .
the basic one , pk2 = 9.6 , affects both km and kcat/km and probably controls the binding conformation of chymotrypsin .
the acidic one , pk1 = 5.7 , affects kcat and kcat/km and plays a role in the catalytic process .
the value of pk1 is unusually low .
properties of a free and a solubilized form of bound alpha , alpha-trehalase purified from honey bee thorax .
the free and bound forms of alpha , alpha-trehalase ( ec 3.2.1.28 ) of the honey bee thorax were separated and the bound enzyme was solubilized by raising the ph to 8.0 for 10 h .
both enzymes were purified .
they were homogeneous as determined by several electrophoretic criteria .
it was found that the two enzymes had very similar km's ( each about 0.89 mm ) , vm's ( 53.2 and 54.3 u/mg for free and solubilized , respectively ) , inhibition characteristics , specificities ( both only hydrolyzed alpha , alpha-trehalose ) , ph maxima ( each had maxima at about 3.5 and 6.5 ) , molecular weights ( 65,000 ) , isoelectric points ( 5.1 ) , reactivities to sulfhydryl reagents , electrophoretic mobilities , activation energies ( about 12.8 kcal/mol ) , and similar stabilities to heat , ph , and urea .
some significant differences between the two enzymes were , however , found : the solubilized alpha , alpha-trehalase floated at 70 % saturation of ammonium sulfate while the free alpha , alpha-trehalase did not ; the solubilized alpha , alpha-trehalase did not dissociate into subunits as readily as did the free one ; and the solubilized alpha , alpha-trehalase was found to bind more readily to a hydrophobic grouping than the free enzyme .
in addition to these comparisons , three new findings relating to thorax alpha , alpha-trehalases are reported .
( 1 ) thorax alpha , alpha-trehalases are strongly inhibited by beta-glucosides ( ki values of about 8 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) ; ( 2 ) under certain conditions thorax alpha , alpha-trehalases from honey bees dissociated into subunits of one-half the normal molecular weight ; ( 3 ) honey bee thorax alpha , alpha-trehalases have unusual biphasic ph activity profiles .
immunotherapy for cancer : an overview .
immunotherapy of cancer is of interest to oncologists because it is specifically directed to cancer cells , sparing normal cells .
while it is ineffective in most patients , especially those with widespread metastatic disease , it occasionally produces good results .
each of the available methods has inherent problems and , recently , attempts have been made to overcome some of these .
there is a strong case for small-scale experimental trials in highly selected groups of patients who are intensively investigated for their immunologic status in relation to their tumour .
despite the lack of success in general , immunotherapy still appears to have a future as an adjunct to existing therapy in order to control as much as to cure residual tumour .
the reproductive season of newfoundland caribou .
l- [ alphas , 5s ] -alpha-amino-3-chloro-4,5-dihydro-5-isoxazoleacetic acid ( nsc-163501 ) : a new amino acid antibiotic with the properties of an antagonist of l-glutamine .
l- [ alphas,5s ] -alpha-amino-3-chloro-4,5-dihydro-5-isoxazoleacetic acid ( nsc-163501 ) , an antibiotic elaborated by streptomyces sviceus , has been shown to be a powerful inhibitor of many mammalian and bacterial reactions involving the transfer of nitrogen from the gamma-carboxamide of l-glutamine .
thus , the utilization of l-glutamine for the synthesis of carbamyl phosphate , l-asparagine , guanosine-5'-monophosphate , cytidine-5'-triphosphate , n-formylglycinamidine ribonucleotide , nad , glucosamine-6-phosphate , and anthranilic acid is strongly or totally inhibited by a concentration of nsc-163501 of 1 x 10 ( -3 ) m .
l-glutamate synthetase of escherichia coli is only modestly inhibited and 5-phosphoribosylamine synthesis in fetal rat liver is comparatively refractory to inhibition .
nsc-163501 treatment of l1210 cells growing in a low l-glutamine culture medium produced arrest in g or early s phase .
of the amino acids tested , only l-glutamine antagonized such growth inhibition .
antitumor and immunosuppressive activities of lankacidin-group antibiotics : structure-activity relationships .
the antitumor and immunosuppressive activities of the lankacidin-group antibiotics were studied in mice .
seventeen of 29 newly prepared lankacidin-group antibiotics , including 14-derivatives of lankacidin c , lankacidinol , isolankacidinol , and lankacidinol 14-acetate , possessed considerable antitumor activity against ascites 6c3hed/og lymphosarcoma .
comparative studies on the antitumor activity of lankacidin c and eight of its derivatives against l1210 leukemia and solid 6c3hed/og lymphosarcoma demonstrated that replacement of the hydroxyl group at position 8 or 14 of lankacidin c by an acyloxy group potentiated antitumor activity .
however , these modifications of lankacidin c resulted in reduction of the immunosuppressive activity .
the advanced clinical nurse ( acn ) and the health team .
why urinalysis ?
control of autoreactivity by a humoral factor of the thymus ( thf ) .
differential production of interferon and lymphotoxin by human tonsil lymphocytes .
effect of a single administration of testosterone on the immune response and lymphoid tissues in mice .
[ experience with the treatment of undescended testis ] .
evidence for a physiological role of renal sympathetic nerves in adrenergic stimulation of renin release in the rat .
previous studies on renin release by an in vitro system of rat kidney slices , which is devoid of hemodynamic influences , have provided evidence that renin release is stimulated by a beta-adrenergic mechanism .
we used this system to study effects of tyramine ( an indirectly acting amine capable of displacing endogenous catecholmines from sympathetic nerve endings ) on renin release .
tyramine ( 10 ( -3 ) m ) in the presence of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( pheniprazine , 10 ( -5 ) m ) and a phosphodiesterase inhibitor ( theophylline , 10 ( -3 ) m ) significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) stimulated renin release when values were compared to control observations for media containing only the inhibitors .
tyramine-induced stimulation of renin release was blocked by the beta-blocking agent , propranolol ( 2 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) , and the neural uptake blocking agent , cocaine ( 10 ( -5 ) m ) , but not by the alpha-antagonist , phentolamine ( 9 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) .
these observations demonstrate a potential role for the sympathetic innervation of the juxtaglomerular apparatus on renin release .
effects of storage in the cold on activity of gamma-glutamyltransferase in serum .
sera from patients with hepatobiliary disorders were selected to represent a wide range of activity of gamma-glutamyltransferase ( ec 2.3.2.2 ) .
samples were stored at 4 degrees c and periodically tested for as long as nine weeks , others at -6 degrees c for as long as 40 weeks .
the frozen-stored samples were thawed and then frozen again after each testing .
the activity of the enzyme was essentially unchanged under both conditions of storage .
these results are consistent with comments in the literature on the enzyme's stability .
letter : optimal gamma-glutamyltransferase assay ?
quantitative fractionation of alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes according to their thermostability .
continuous monitoring of heat denaturation of a mixture of alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes at 60 degrees c and ph 7.5 permits the simultaneous direct identification and quantitation of three isoenzymes : the placental isoenzyme , the l-phenylalanine-sensitive intestinal isoenzyme , and the liver isoenzyme ( hepatocytic ) .
the isoenzyme that is principally of bone origin can not be identified as such without the help of other diagnostic aids and the patient's medical history .
all human tissues contain alkaline phosphatase , many organs more than one of the isoenzymes .
liver alkaline phosphatase , which constitutes 40-50 % of normal serum alkaline phosphatase activity , was measured in the serum of persons with various liver diseases .
its activity exceeded normal in all types of liver disease ; in 80 % of cases this increase was accompanied by increased gamma-glutamyl-transferase activity , but the quantitative correlationship ( r = 0.54 ) was not as good as expected if both enzymes come from the same source and are indices of liver dieases .
liver alkaline phosphatase activity increases in the blood early in liver disease , before most liver tests show abnormalities .
the other major isoenzyme of normal serum probably represents a mixture of isoenzymes from bone and reticulo-endothelial and vascular tissues , which all contain the same `` very heat-labile '' alkaline phosphatase .
cord blood and children's sera contain mostly this very heat-labile isoenzyme .
spectrophotometric end-point method for assay of serum cystyl-aminopeptidase in pregnancy .
an optimized end-point method that requires little sophisticated equipment is described for estimating serum cystyl-aminopeptidase during pregnancy .
s-benzyl-l-cysteine-4-nitroanilide is used as the substrate .
improved separation of creatine kinase cardiac isoenzyme in serum by batch fractionation .
i describe a simple , single-tube batch fractionation procedure for separating mm and mb isoenzymes of creatine kinase on a macroporous strong anion exchanger ( ag mp-1 , bio-rad laboratories ) .
the isoenzymes can be separated in less than 3 min , with a resulting dilution of the serum with no more than an equal volume of buffer .
without sample concentration or spectrofluorometric measurement , the procedure detects 4 u of mb isoenzyme per liter .
sensitivity is limited by the sensitivity and precision of the method of measurement .
the cv for the fractionation can be held to less than 4.0 % at 65 u of mb per liter .
current fractionation methods are compared to the proposed procedure .
with use of a discrete analyzer ( du pont aca ) the mean mb activity in a population free of heart disease was 3.2 +/- 3.0 u/liter ( range , 0 to 8 u/liter ) .
the kinetics and stability of isolated isoenzymes are reported , indicating that advisability of storing or pre-incubating samples with mercaptoethanol .
the dependence of tryptamine excretion on urinary ph .
it is demonstrated that urinary tryptamine decreases significantly with increasing urinary ph .
this effect becomes important at a urinary ph of 6.5 and over .
a stabilising factor for gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase in urine .
urinary gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase ( gamma-gt ) has been found to be stable when stored at room temperature and 4 degrees c .
activity is lost rapidly when urine is frozen but prior dialysis will prevent this loss .
urea is the major factor responsible for the loss of activity ; albumin is protective at concentrations of 6 g/l or more .
a factor of 10 000-30 000 molecular weight which will prevent the loss of urinary gamma-gt activity on freezing has been found in serum and urine ; it has high potency in serum and in urine from patients with chronic renal failure , but only low potency in normal urine .
its nature is unknown but it is heat stable .
properties of beta-glucuronidase activity in human synovial fluid .
the purpose of the present study was to evaluate the properties of beta-glucuronidase ( ec 3.2.1.31 ) in human synovial fluid .
it was shown to have a ph requirement of 5.0 and a km value of about 8.0 - 10 ( -3 ) m using phenolphthalein beta-glucuronide as the substrate .
at low substrate concentration an endogenous inhibitor is demonstrable .
the inhibition is of the competitive type and is removed by proteolytic digestion of synovial fluid , whereas hyaluronidase digestion and addition either of triton x-100 or of various salts to the assay mixture , are ineffective .
the possibility that the inhibitor is a protein from serum is discussed .
glucose-phosphate isomerase deficiency due to a new variant ( gp i barcelona ) and to a silent gene : biochemical , immunological and genetic studies .
a 12-year-old girl of spanish origin was found to be double heterozygote for a deficient gp i variant ( gp i barcelona ) and for a silent gp i gene .
the mother was heterozygote for gp i barcelona and the father was heterozygote for the silent gene .
gp i barcelona was a fast variant ( 116 % ) with an increased isoelectric point ( 9.55 ) , lability to heat and to urea , and shift of the ph curve towards the acidic ph .
the other kinetic characteristics were normal .
the ratio of enzymatic activity to immunological reactivity was normal in erythrocytes and white blood cells of the father and the mother but decreased to 75 % of normal in blood cells of the daughter .
the genetic and molecular mechanisms of gp i deficiency of this patient are discussed .
alkaline and enzymatic hydrolysis of conjugated bile acids .
rosette formation by mouse lymphocytes .
iv .
fc and c3 receptors occurring together and separately on t cells and other leucocytes .
a method is described for detecting the simultaneous presence of fc and c3 receptors on mouse spleen cells .
a proportion of both t cells and non-t cells bear both receptors .
both t-cell and non-t-cell fc receptors were blocked by aggregated mouse igg2 to the same degree .
c3 , but not fc , receptors were blocked by factors present in the serum of irradiated mice or mice undergoing graft-versus-host reaction .
thymocytes activated by injection into irradiated f1 hybrid mice , and thymocytes regenerating after irradiation and bone marrow injection , appeared to have increased fc receptors .
a general role for fc and c3 receptors in t cell-b cell co-operation is suggested .
ontogeny of immunity in humans .
fluroxene toxicity induced by phenobarbital .
because of reports of fluroxene toxicity in man , the effect of phenobarbital treatment on the toxicity and metabolism of fluroxene was studied in 9 rhesus monkeys .
six monkeys that were exposed to a mean calculated alveolar fluroxene concentration of 5.8 % for 4-hr periods up to a total of 16 hr showed no evidence of toxicity .
two animals were sacrificed after a single 4-hr exposure to obtain control measures of fluroxene metabolites in tissues .
four monkeys that had previously survived received exposures to fluroxene and 3 monkeys that had no exposure to fluroxene died during fluroxene anesthesia after treatment with phenobarbital ( mean time , 3 hr ) .
toxicity was manifested by arterial hypotension , pulmonary edema , and arterial hypoxemia .
phenobarbital treatment enhanced production of fluroxene metabolites , including the highly toxic trifluoroethanol .
concentrations of trifluoroethanol in mixed-expired gas , blood , and urine , and of total nonvolatile fluorine in blood , urine , and tissues of animals treated with phenobarbital were 2 to 10 times as in control animals .
the results suggest that the rhesus monkey is a valuable model for the study of fluroxene pharmacology and that inclusion of an enzyme-inducing challenge in the evaluation of potential toxicity of other anesthetics seems warranted .
plasma concentrations and the time-course of beta blockade due to propranolol .
the effectiveness of intravenously administered propranolol in antagonizing the chronotropic effect of isoproterenol and exercise has been investigated , and has been found at all times to be a predictable function of its plasma concentrations according to the classical drug-receptor theory for competitive antagonism .
the data show further that the relationship between effectiveness and time depends on the way in which antagonism is measured .
if the dose ratio to isoproterenol ( dr ) is measured , then ( dr-1 ) declines with time in parallel with drug concentration .
on the other hand , if propranolol's effects are measured as percentage reduction in a given response , then this declines linearly with time , even though plasma concentrations decline exponentially .
this fact explains why confusion has in the past arisen concerning the relationship of the duration of beta blockade and pharmacokinetic half-life .
evaluation of lorazepam and pentobarbital as surgical premedicants .
lorazepam , a new benzodiazepine , was compared with a standard surgical premedicant , pentobarbital .
in a double-blind study in 128 patients , lorazepam , 2 and 4 mg , and pentobarbital , 50 and 100 mg , were given intravenously in a randomized sequence .
significant differences were noted ; lorazepam was found to provide greater sedation , lack of recall , and greater antianxiety effect than pentobarbital .
no significant adverse effects were noted following either drug .
vital signs remained stable .
the renal elimination of procainamide .
the question of ph or flow dependence for the renal elimination of procainamide ( pca ) was studied under 4 conditions in each of 4 subjects .
each subject received 500 mg of pca intravenously at weekly intervals while in a state of ( 1 ) acid load ( nh4cl ) and water deprivation , ( 2 ) acid load and water excess , ( 3 ) alkali load ( nahco3 ) and water deprivation , and ( 4 ) alkali load and water excess .
plasma and urine were collected at frequent intervals for pca and n-acetyl pca ( napa ) analysis .
urine flow rates varied markedly between the water deprivation and water excess states ( approximately 1.2 vs 5 ml/min , respectively ) , and urine ph varied markedly between the acid and alkali load states ( ph = ca 5 vs 8 , respectively ) .
despite this marked variation , there were no significant changes in pca renal clearance or 24-hr pca or napa excretion .
if passive diffusion of pca were taking place , such flow and ph changes would have caused marked changes in pca clearance were the ph partition hypothesis true .
we therefore conclude that passive diffusion is not an important mechanism in the renal elimination of pca in man and that there must be tubular secretion .
the implication for the clinical use of the drug is that dose adjustments need not be made in response to variations in urine flow and ph .
seasonal variations in the composition of urine in relation to calcium stone-formation .
1. a retrospective cross-sectional study was carried out on data derived from single 24 h urine collections from 246 male idiopathic calcium stone-formers .
2. the daily urine volume and ph and the exretions of calcium , oxalate , phosphate , creatinine and magnesium were related to the time of year when the urine was collected , and the saturation of urine with calcium oxalate and octocalcium phosphate calculated for each month .
3. there were significant seasonal variations in the urinary excretion of calcium and oxalate , each showing a maximum during the summer months and a minimum in the winter .
there was no significant seasonal variation in urinary ph , volume , creatinine , phosphate or magnesium .
4. there was a significant increase in the saturation of urine with calcium oxalate and a trend towards higher saturation levels of octo-calcium phosphate in the summer .
these changes were dependent only on the seasonal variation in urinary calcium and oxalate and not on urine volume .
5. a retrospective study of the seasonal incidence of stone episodes among these 246 stone-formers showed that the rate of stone passage per month was 50 % higher in the summer than in the winter .
there was no significant seasonal variation in the incidence of stones removed surgically .
[ diphenylhydantoin-beta-adrenolytic combinations and digitalis poisoning ] .
the electrophysiology of transduction , retinal interaction and axonal conduction in invertebrate photoreceptors .
the effect of splenectomy on the hematology and on the activity of delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase ( ala-d ) in hemopoietic tissues of the dogfish , scyliorhinus canicula ( elasmobranchii ) .
circadian variations of hormonal content in the nervous system of the crayfish .
fatty acid and carbohydrate storage in the annual reproductive cyclice of echinaster .
temperature preferences and electrocardiography of elaphe obsoleta ( serpentes ) .
water metabolism in the llama .
geographical and electrical features of large neurons in limulus abdominal ganglia .
reduced glutathione -- a comparative study of erythrocytes from various species of marsupials in australia .
a study of the electrophysiological properties of the incurrent siphonal valve muscle of the surf clam , spisula solidissima .
occurrence and possible adaptive significance of beta-glucuronidase and arylamidase ( `` leucine aminopeptidase '' ) activity in two species of marine nematodes .
protein and energy utilization by the insect , argyrotaenia velutinana ( walker ) , fed diets containing graded levels of an amino acid mixture .
urea metabolism in the llama .
the effect of host adrenalectomy on the physiology of trypanosoma rhodesiense .
temperature adaptation at the hemoglobin level in carassius auratus .
direct pco2 measurements in the dorso-bronchial gas of awake peking ducks : evidence for a physiological role of the neopulmo in respiratory gas exchanges .
absorption and transport of exogenous protein in the archinephric duct of the opisthonephric kidney of the sea lamprey , petromyzon marinus l .
changes in plasma glucose and liver glycogen following the administration of gluconeogenic precursors to the starving fowl .
studies on the chemistry of the octopus renal system and an observation on the symbiotic relationship of the dicyemid mesozoa .
the crustacean cuticle -- iii .
composition of the individual layers in cancer pagurus cuticle .
salinity tolerance of the tidepool shrimp palaemon ritteri holmes .
respiration rates and atp concentrations in the excised gills of the blue crab as a function of salinity .
ontogeny of homeothermy in microtus pennsylvanicus and octodon degus .
chloride transport and its inhibition by thiocyanate in gills of seawater teleosts .
intestinal absorption of amino acids in rats infected with nematospiroides dubius .
an oxygen dependent current in aplysia neurons : an approach to the question of cellular hypoxic adaptation .
body temperatures and heart rates of laboratory rats and belding squirrels ( spermophilus beldingi ) during behavioral thermoregulation .
the role of the tail in temperature regulation of the cotton rat , sigmodon hispidus .
carbonic anhydrase levels in the tissues of flounders adapted to sea water and fresh water .
observations on the distribution of visual pigments in amphibia .
the influence of divalent cations on allosteric behaviour of muscle pyruvate kinase from the sea mussel mytilus edulis l .
purification and some properties of atp : arginine phosphotransferase from sea anemones , condylactis aurantiaca .
cellulase and related enzyme activities in a carnivorous mollusc : octopus vulgaris lamarck .
distribution of lead , zinc and calcium in dendrobaena rubida ( oligochaeta ) living in soil contaminated by base metal mining in wales .
problems of the pathogenesis , clinics , and therapy of panarteritis of the aorta and its branches .
138 patients with panarteritis of the aorta and its branches were examined , and the clinical and morphological findings were compared .
the disease is more widespread than has been assumed so far , and is more frequent in young women .
localization of the process in the abdominal aorta with involvement ( stenosis ) of renal arteries causes renovascular hypertension , which often has a malignant course , especially with an ambilateral affection of renal arteries .
in the treatment , repetitive therapeutic courses with corticosteroids and heparin are of fundamental importance .
with an isolated affection , especially in renovascular hypertension and disturbances of cerebral circulation , surgical treatment is also indicated .
mj 9022 : correlation between neuroleptic potential and stereotypy .
piperacetazine in the treatment of mixed neurotics .
efficacy of doxycycline in acute infections of the lower respiratory tract .
[ hernia in childhood ] .
third psychoactive drug usage guide .
lorazepam and diazepam in the treatment of neurotic anxiety : a double-blind trial .
fifty-eight neurotic patients with intense anxiety were treated with either lorazepam or diazepam in a double blind between-patients trial .
statistical analysis indicated that the two groups were homogeneous before treatment and that the results of treatment were similar for both drugs .
according to the global rating of illness week after week , after four weeks of treatment more patients on lorazepam than on diazepam were normal or had mild illness ( 82.1 % vs. 70.8 % ) .
in the investigators ' judgment , 71.9 % of the patients treated with lorazepam had an excellent or good response compared with 56.7+ of those treated with diazepam .
the mean reduction in score on the hamilton anxiety scale was 17.7 for lorazepam and 16.5 for diazepam .
however , none of the above differences in results were statistically significant .
the largest dose of lorazepam required in treatment was 6 mg , compared with 30 mg of diazepam .
two patients treated with lorazepam had side effects , against six with diazepam .
six patients in the diazepam group did not complete the trial , including three who discontinued because of side effects ( rash , tremors , agitation ) ; no patients in the lorazepam group dropped out .
[ adenine and pyridine nucleotides in forms of verticillium dahliae kleb. differing in pathogenicity ] .
[ effect of ph and pyridoxal phosphate on the quaternary structure of e. coli glutamate decarboxylase ] .
[ study of immunological competence in mice by means of the graft versus host reaction ] .
identification and urinary excretion of p-chlorophenoxyacetamide , a metabolite of iproclozide , in humans .
the presence of p-chlorophenoxyacetamide was detected in the urine of man receiving iproclozide [ 1- ( p-chlorophenoxyacetyl ) -2-isopropylhydrazine ] .
this new metabolite was identified by combined gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and by comparison with the synthetic compound .
an appropriate procedure for the extraction and quantitation of p-chlorophenoxyacetamide by gas-liquid chromatography on a 5 % ov-225-packed column with the 2-butyl analog of iproclozide as an internal standard , has been developed .
after 20- and 50-mg single dose oral administrations of iproclozide , 5.2 and 8.3 % were slowly excreted in urine as p-chlorophenoxyacetamide within 30.5 and 36 hr. respectively .
after 20-mg oral intakes by psychiatric patients , the 24-hr urinary excretion of p-chlorophenoxyacetamide amounted to about 2-4 % of the iproclozide dose administered .
tissue metabolites of trifluorperazine , fluphenazine , prochlorperazine , and perphenazine .
kinetics in chronic treatment .
repeated oral treatment of male rats with piperazine-substituted phenothiazine drugs in doses of 25 mg/kg or more daily led to an accumulation of metabolites containing an ethylenediamine group instead of the piperazine ring .
these products of ring degradation with and without removal of the n-alkyl group were found , together with the parent drugs and their n-dealkylated metabolites , in liver , lung , kidney , and spleen , as well as in brain when high doses were administered .
after termination of treatment , the ethylenediamine derivatives were eliminated more slowly than were their congeners containing the intact piperazine ring .
parallel observations were made in dogs given fluphenazine in daily doses of up to 40 mg/kg .
quantitative differences were observed in the relative amounts of mono- and disubstituted ethylenediamine metabolites accumulated in rat tissues during treatment with the various drugs ; the proportion of the monosubstituted product formed by n-dealkylation and ring cleavage declined in the following order : perazine , prochlorperazine , trifluoperazine , fluphenazine , perphenazine .
condensation products of the ethylenediamine derivatives with formaldehyde were split in the extraction procedure used .
comparative biotransformation of triflubazam in rats , dogs , and monkeys .
the biotransformation of 14c-triflubazam ( orf 8063 ; 1-methyl-5-phenyl-7-trifluoromethyl-1h-1,5-benzodiazepin-2-4- [ 3h,5h ] -dione ) was investigated in rats , dogs , and monkeys .
urinary metabolites , representing 65 , 74 , and 87 % , respectively , of the total urinary radioactivity excreted by these three species , were isolated by preparative layer chromatography and characterized by various spectral techniques including gas chromatography/mass spectrometry , solid probe mass spectrometry , polarimetry , and infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry .
no parent drug was found in the urine of any species .
four metabolites were isolated from the rat including the 4'-hydroxyphenyl , dihydrodiol , and 3'-methoxy-4'hydroxy derivatives .
n-demethylated metabolites were not isolated from rat urine .
five metabolites were isolated from dog urine , including 4-hydroxyphenyl , dihydrodiol , and catechol derivatives of triflubazam .
unlike the case of the rat , a catechol-o-methyl ether was not detected in dog urine .
six metabolites were isolated from monkey urine .
the only major difference in metabolism in the monkey was the existence of both the dihydrodiol and n-desmethyldihydrodiol metabolites .
no catechol-0-methyl ether was detected in monkey urine .
biotransformation through a common arene oxide intermediate can be proposed for these three animal species .
physiological disposition and metabolism of 5- ( 2',4'-difluorophenyl ) salicyclic acid , a new salicylate .
5- ( 2'4'-difluorophenyl ) [ carboxy-14c ] salicyclic acid ( mk-647 ) was quickly and completely absorbed in rats , dogs , and man .
peak levels of plasma radioactivity occurred in 1-2 hr after oral administration .
the dose was 10 mg/kg in rats and dogs , and 50 or 500 mg in man .
most of the drug in plasma was intact mk-647 which was extensively bound to plasma protein .
in man the peak concentration following the 500-mg dose was approximately 10 times that after the lower dose , which suggests that absorption rates of both doses were similar .
elimination of drug from plasma was dose-dependent .
the area under the curve for mk-647-14c in plasma was 18 times higher following the 500-mg dose than the 50-mg dose .
dogs given 10 mg/kg orally or intravenously excreted 44 % of the dose in the urine and 42 % in the feces in 72 hr .
rats given the same dose level by either route of administration excreted 80 % in the urine and 11 % in the feces .
in man approximately 95 % of a 50- or 500-mg oral dose was excreted in the urine and 3 % in the feces , in 96 hr .
mk-647 and two metabolites were present in the urine of three species .
the ether and ester glucuronides were identified in human urine .
the latter metabolite was also identified in rat and dog urine .
the glycine conjugate of mk-647 was not observed in the urine of the three species .
no interaction was observed between mk-647 and bishydroxycoumarin in the prothrombin time test nor with tolbutamide in the glucose tolerance test .
a significant lowering of hexobarbital sleeping time was observed in female , but not male rats after four consecutive daily doses of mk-647 .
after repeated daily administration of mk-647 ( 12.5-100 mg/kg ) , the diurnal plasma level in dogs was not significantly altered , indicating that no saturation , induction , or inhibition of its own metabolism took place .
spironolactone metabolism in man studied by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry .
gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to identify metabolites of spironolactone in human blood and urine .
in three healthy men about 20 % of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine within 24 hr after an oral dose of [ 20-3h ] spironolactone ( 200 mg + 200 muci ) .
about half of this radioactivity was extracted with chloroform at ph 3 and from this extract four stable metabolites were isolated by use of column and thin-layer chromatography .
two of these were the previously identified metabolites , canrenone ( vii ; 2.9 % of dose ) and the 6beta-hydroxy-sulfoxide ( x ; 1.8 % of the dose ) .
the remaining were the new metabolites , 15alpha-hydroxycanrenone ( xi ; 0.8 % of dose ) and the 6beta-hydroxy-thiomethyl derivatives ( vi ; 0.5 % of dose ) .
the principal water-soluble urinary metabolite was canrenoate ester glucuronide ( xii ; 4.5 % of dose ) .
in the 24- to 32-hr pooled serum , canrenone ( vii ) was the principal metabolite in the organic-extractable fraction ; vi was present in appreciable amounts but x and xi were present at extremely low levels .
n-hydroxyamobarbital : the second major metabolite of amobarbital in man .
after oral administration of 14c-labeled amobarbital to healthy subjects , most of the radioactivity was recovered in urine and only 4-5 % in feces over a period of 6 days .
no unchanged amobarbital was excreted .
two major metabolites were found and isolated .
one was 3'-hydroxyamobarbital , which has been previously identified by maynert .
the second could be identified as n-hydroxyamobarbital on the basis of its spectral and chemical properties .
correlation of 14c-griseofulvin metabolism in rat liver microsomes , isolated perfused rat livers , and in rats with bile duct cannulas .
the metabolism of 14c-griseofulvin has been compared in rat liver microsomes , isolated perfused rat livers , and rats with bile duct cannulas .
in all three preparations , 4-desmethylgriseofulvin and 6-desmethylgriseofulvin were the major metabolites .
the ratio of total 4-desmethylgriseofulvin to 6-desmethylgriseofulvin formed was 1.20 , 0.89 , and 1.01 in liver microsomes , isolated perfused livers , and rats with bile duct cannulas , respectively .
after a 7-min incubation with liver microsomes , most ( 96 % ) of the griseofulvin remained unchanged .
only small amounts of 4-desmethylgriseofulvin ( 1.26 % ) of dose ) and 6-desmethylgriseofulvin ( 1.05 % of dose ) were formed .
in isolated perfused liver , most of the drug ( 59 % of dose ) was excreted into bile within 4 hr , primarily as 4-desmethylgriseofulvin ( 24 % of dose ) and 6-methylgriseofulvin ( 24 % of dose ) .
in animals with bile duct cannulas , 65 % of the dose was excreted into bile and 18 % of the dose into urine within 4 hours .
in bile , 32 % of the dose was excreted as 4-desmethylgriseofulvin and 20 % of the dose as 6-desmethylgriseofulvin , whereas in urine the drug was excreated predominantly as 6-desmethylgriseofulvin ( 13 % of dose ) with only a small amount of 4-desmethylgriseofulvin ( 1 % of dose ) , during the first 4 hr .
these results show that there is good correlation in the metabolic fate of 14c-griseofulvin in the liver microsomes , isolated perfused liver , and rats with bile duct cannulas .
in addition to the similar ratio of 4-desmethylgriseofulvin to 6-desmethylgriseofulvin , there is also an agreement in the extent of metabolism and biliary excretion in isolated perfused liver and in rats with bile duct cannulas , which suggests that the isolated perfused liver is an important technique for studying drug metabolism in animals .
oxidative biotransformation of 2-acetylaminofluorene in fetal and placental tissues of humans and monkeys .
correlations with aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activities .
the mixed-function oxidation of 14c-labled 2-acetylaminofluorene ( aaf ) was investigated in placental and fetal tissues of humans and monkeys ( macaca nemestrina ) in vitro .
the major metabolite formed in most tissues was 7-hydroxy-aaf .
rates of the hydroxylation reactions varied widely among the tissues investigated and were generally one to two orders of magnitude lower than those measured in rat hepatic tissues .
high correlations among rates of 7-,5- , and 3- and between 1- and n-hydroxylations of aaf were observed .
the latter two reactions were less responsive to inhibition by carbon monoxide .
rates of 3-hydroxylations of benzo [ a ] pyrene ( bp ) also were highly correlated with rates of 7- , 5- , and 3-hydroxylations of aaf but were not correlated with rates of 1- and n-hydroxylations in human placental microsomes .
a lack of statistically significant correlations was observed among rates of many of these hydroxylation reactions studied in primate fetal tissues .
rates of 7- , 5- , and 3-hydroxylations of aaf were not statistically correlated with rates of 3-hydroxylation of bp in homogenates of primate fetal tissues in most instances , but statistically significant correlations among rates of 3-hydroxylation of bp and 1- and n-hydroxylations of aaf were observed in those preparations .
the results suggested two separate mechanisms for the genetic control of rates of placental aromatic ring- and n-hydroxylation reactions as opposed to apparent multiple genetic controls for rates of these hydroxylation reactions in primate fetal tissues .
effect of 3-methylcholanthrene treatment on phenacetin o-dealkylation in several inbred mouse strains .
an increase in the metabolism of phenacetin to n-acetyl-p-aminophenol is correlated with benzo [ a ] pyrene hydroxylase induction by 3-methylcholanthrene among several inbred mouse strains .
while the magnitude of induction of phenacetin o-dealkylation is considerably less than that of benzo [ a ] pyrene hydroxylation , the data indicate that in mice , the metabolism of these two substrates is under similar regulatory control .
further studies of metyrapone effects upon anilide hydroxylation .
the enhancing effect of metyrapone upon the p-hydroxylation of acetanilide has been confirmed with the use of a new gas-chromatographic method for the determination of acetaminophen .
this effect has been shown not to be due to inhibition of hydrolysis of acetaminophen or interference with its determination , or to preferential formation of other phenolic metabolites .
this effect of metyrapone is remarkably substrate-specific : phenol formation from the homologues of acetanilide , formanilide and propionanilide , and that from the sulfonamide analog of acetanilide , methanesulfonanilide , is inhibited by metyrapone over the concentration range in which acetanilide hydroxylation is enhanced .
the same substrate specificity was observed when the modifier was acetophenone .
alpha , alpha'-dipyridyl , however , enhances phenol formation from all three carbonacylanilides , but does not affect that from methanesulfonanilide .
nature and fate of insecticide residues inhaled by rats in cigarette smoke .
radioactive carbaryl , carbofuran , parathion , leptophos , and ddt were added to cigarettes and the mainstream smoke was directed to the lungs of rats via the trachea .
total radiocarbon transfer to the lungs ranged from 9 to 15 % of that in the tobacco burned during a smoking process involving eight 5-ml puffs .
exhalation of 14c residues during this time was 24 to 30 % of that inhaled with all insecticides except carbofuran , of which 42 % of the residues was exhaled .
after 5 hr , total exhalation of the consumed radiocarbon was 35 % for parathion , 65 % for carbofuran , and approximately 50 % for the other products .
the nature of the 14c residues inhaled , their urinary and fecal excretion , and their deposition in and dissipation from various organs and tissues are presented .
absorption and disposition of 2- [ 4- ( 2,2-dichlorocyclopropyl ) phenoxy ] -2-methylpropanoic acid , win 35,833 , in rats , monkeys , and men .
2- [ 4- ( 2,2-dichlorocyclopropyl ) phenoxy ] -2-methylpropanoic acid , win 35,833 , was readily absorbed after oral administration ; in rats , rhesus monkeys , and human volunteers , peak concentrations of drug in plasma were attained within 2 hr of medication .
the time-concentration curve of administered drug was biphasic in monkeys and men , while in rats the kinetics of a one-compartment model were observed .
distribution studies of 14c-labeled drug in the rat showed that most of the radioactivity was excreted in the feces and that significant quantities of 14c were sequestered by depot fat .
monkeys and human subjects both eliminated win 35,833 primarily through the kidneys .
the drug was excreted in rat bile and human urine , both as the free acid and conjugated with glucuronic acid .
at physiological concentrations , win 35,833 was extensively bound to rat , monkey , and human plasma proteins .
a gas-chromatographic method for the analysis of drug in plasma , urine , or bile gave a linear relationship between peak height ratios and concentrations , in the range of 1-60 mug/ml .
the gastrointestinal absorption of methadone in the rat .
the absorption of dl-methadone from the gastrointestinal tract of the sprague-dawley rat was examined by the in vivo segment technique .
duodenal absorption , measured as a function of time and dose , followed first-order kinetics with a half-life of 15.6 min .
absorption was not influenced by prior or concomitant administration of a variety of drugs .
absorption from other regions of the intestine was similar to that from the duodenum ; in contrast , absorption from the stomach was markedly slower .
gastric absorption was increased by alkalinization of stomach contents but was still considerably slower than from the duodenum .
gastric emptying of methadone appears to be the rate-limiting step in the overall gastrointestinal absorption of the drug , since the rate of emptying following intubation of the drug into the stomach was also considerably slower than the rate of duodenal absorption .
biliary excretion of colchicine in newborn rats .
the 24-hr ld50 of colchicine in newborn rats is 0.24 mg/kg , which is about 1/10 that observed in the adult .
the 24-hr ld50 of colchicine was relatively constant in rats over 25 days of age .
in an attempt to determine the mechanism of the increased sensitivity of the newborn rat to the toxic action of colchicine , the distribution of 3h after the administration of 3h-colchicine ( 0.1 mg/kg ) was measured in 10- and 35-day-old rats .
the concentration of 3h was higher in all tissues of the newborn than the adult after ip administration , suggesting an immaturity in the pathway for colchicine elimination .
after iv administration , radioactivity disappeared much more slowly from the plasma of the newborn rat than from the adult .
this was due to a lower capacity of the liver of the newborn to concentrate colchicine and to excrete it into the bile .
development of the hepatic excretory mechanism responsible for excretion of colchicine occurred at the same age as did the increase in ld50 .
these results suggest that colchicine is more toxic in the newborn because the drug remains in the body for a longer time due to immaturity of the liver excretory process .
disposition in rats of a polyoxypropylene-polyoxyethylene copolymer used in plasma fractionation .
a polyoxypropylene-polyoxyethylene block copolymer of about 4750 daltons ( poloxamer 108 , pluronic f-38 ) used in a new protein fractionation procedure may be infused into patients receiving therapeutic plasma fractions .
we studied the disposition and pharmacokinetics of poloxamer 108 in rats as an initial step towards understanding its behavior in man .
after iv administration in rats , about 94 % of 7 or 100 mg/kg doses of ethylene-14c-labeled polymer was excreted in the urine in 3 days .
about 6 % of the label appeared in feces .
erythrocyte membranes were not permeable to the polymer , and only the parent compound was demonstrable in urine .
twenty hours after dosing , small residues were detectable only in the kidney , liver , small intestine , and carcass .
the third phase of the plasma disappearance pattern was evident only at the larger dose , but plasma disappearance kinetics were independent of the dose in the range used here .
thus , most of poloxamer 108 was eliminated rapidly in rats by renal excretion , and a smaller portion probably was removed by biliary excretion .
these results will be applied to continuing studies of poloxamer 108 disposition in man .
uptake and disposition of aldrin and dieldrin by isolated perfused rabbit lung .
the uptake , metabolism , and release of aldrin and dieldrin by the lungs were studied by use of isolated perfused rabbit lungs that were artificially ventilated and perfused through the pulmonary artery .
both recirculating and single-pass experiments were conducted using an artificial medium as perfusate .
aldrin accumulated in the lung from the perfusate through two distinct phases of uptake : a rapid phase involving simple diffusion and nonspecific binding and a slower phase representing its metabolic turnover as dieldrin .
dieldrin was not metabolized but accumulated in the lungs by a saturable and a nonsaturable process .
single-pass experiments with aldrin indicated that the initial velocity of uptake could be fitted to one component and a constant representing the rate of metabolism .
uptake of dieldrin was biphasic : one phase independent of the perfusate concentration and the other saturable with respect to the perfusate concentration .
by the application of michaelis-menten kinetics , the maximum amount of dieldrin accumulation attributable to the saturable component was calculated to be 0.64 mumol/lung .
our results indicate that the accumulation of these chlorinated xenobiotics takes place through the processes of simple diffusion followed by nonspecific tissue binding .
there was no evidence for irreversible binding of aldrin or dieldrin , its epoxide , in the lung .
while the lung plays a role in metabolizing aldrin to dieldrin followed by a transient storage , neither substrate has the potential for long-term storage in the lung .
kinetic and spectral studies of type i and type ii compounds with rat hepatic microsomes in the presence of the major metabolite of diphenylhydantoin .
the nature of the inhibitory effects of the major metabolite of diphenylhydantoin , 5- ( p-hydroxyphenyl ) -5-phenylhydantoin ( hpph ) , on the in vitro metabolism of ethylmorphine and aniline by rat hepatic microsomes was examined .
the n-demethylation of ethylmorphine was competitively inhibited by hpph , whereas inhibition of the hydroxylation of aniline was not competitive .
the spectrum produced by hpph when added to microsomal suspensions does not resemble the classical type i or type ii spectra , but rather a reversed type i spectrum .
spectral evidence is presented indicating that hpph also diminishes the magnitude of the spectral change produced by type i and ii compounds .
change in the kinetics of sulphacetamide tissue distribution in walker tumor-bearing rats .
the effect of walker tumor on sulphacetamide distribution was studied in rats 21 days after tumor implantation in a hind leg .
after oral administration of sulphacetamide ( 5 and 20 min ) , the concentration of the drug was found to be lower in the plasma and liver of tumor-bearing rats when compared with that of control group .
however , 90 min after sulphacetamide administration , the concentration of the drug in these same tissues was found to be higher in tumor-bearing rats than in control animals .
whereas the tumor had no apparent effect on sulphacetamide concentration in the brain , drug concentrations in the fat tissue of tumor-bearing rats were constantly higher than those of control animals .
these changes in sulphacentamide disposition kinetics could be explained in part by delay in gastrointestinal absorption of the drug .
contrary to what was observed after oral administration , constantly higher drug concentrations were found in the plasma of tumor-bearing rats after iv injection of sulphacetamide .
furthermore , the half-life of sulphacetamide in these same animals was much higher than in control animals .
it is concluded that , in walker tumor-bearing rats , there are changes in the kinetics of sulphacetamide which are functions of the route of administration of the drug .
cytochrome p-450 measurement in rat liver homogenate and microsomes .
its use for correction of microsomal losses incurred by differential centrifugation .
cytochrome p-450 was assayed in rat liver homogenates and microsomes in order to calculate microsomal recoveries and correct for losses during ultracentrifugation or sedimentation in presence of cacl2 .
the values obtained for corrected microsomal protein in untreated female sprague-dawley rats were between 40 and 50 mg/g of liver .
the assay of cytochrome p-450 in liver homogenate is accurate enough to calculate a reproducible recovery factor .
the value of the method lies in its rapidity , its capacity to correct over a wide range of losses , and its capacity to yield reliable values of the total microsomal protein mass .
the limits of this method include overestimation of homogenate cytochrome p-450 and inability to correct for nonmicrosomal protein contamination .
overestimation of cytochrome p-450 can be corrected by measuring the difference in absorbance between 450 and 510 nm with the extinction coefficient of 100 mm-1cm-1 .
to be accurate , cytochrome p-450 determination on microsomes must be done at protein concentrations of about 3 mg/ml .
the error inherent to the method may be kept constant and minimal .
the use of correction for microsomal losses is recommended in order to obtain uniformity between results from various laboratories and adequate correlation with in vivo studies of microsomal functions .
complications of immunisation : whooping cough vaccine .
[ role of adrenergic mechanisms in origin of arrhythmias following administration of tricyclic antidepressive agents ] .
[ studies on the potentiation of the antibiotics contained in prednobiotad ] .
[ review : allergic dermatoses in the dog ] .
problems with practolol .
[ reliability of doping tests in sports ] .
report on the occurrence and habitat of mosquitoes in two locations in machakos district , kenya .
identification of `` big '' human placental lactogen in placenta and serum .
because of increasing evidence for the heterogeneity of polypeptide hormones , studies of the molecular species of human placental lactogen ( hpl ) were initiated .
when extracts of freshly delivered human placentas were passed over sephadex g-100 in 0.05m ammonium carbonate , three immunoreactive peaks were detected .
in addition to a peak corresponding to native hpl ( kav = 0.39 ) and one in the void volume , a consistent peak which eluted before hpl ( kav = 0.20 ) was present .
the latter represented 2-25 % of total hormonal activity and could be rerun without significant conversion to hpl .
in 8m urea , the peak continued to behave as a large molecular weight form on both sephadex chromatography and on polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis .
extraction procedures at both neutral and alkaline ph produced similar quantities of the larger material .
[ 125i ] iodo-hpl was not converted to the larger form by the conditions of extraction or analysis .
these properties are consistent with a larger molecular weight , non-aggregated form of hpl .
in comparison with the native hormone , the idsplacement curves for the larger form were parallel in radioimmunoassay studies .
sera obtained from pregnant women during various stages of gestation also showed consistent evidence for a large molecular weight form of the hormone .
these observations provide direct evidence , both in placental tissue and in serum for `` big '' hpl .
the water-to-air transfer of 35so4= by bursting bubbles .
the transfer of 35so4= from water to air by bursting bubbles was studied as a function of three levels each of three variables in a bubbling solution .
the variables were ph , surfactant concentration , and na2 35so4 concentration .
one combination of the above variables was also studied at three different temperatures .
sterile water solutions containing different combinations of the above factors and a fixed amount of 22nacl were bubbled in an enclosure for 1 hour .
after bubbling , samples of the aerosol produced , the larger drops that fell out of the air , and the bulk solution were collected and assayed for their 35s and 22na content using liquid scintillation counting .
the 35s/22na enrichment for each droplet sample as compared to the ratio for the bulk solution was determined , and it was found to be dependent upon the combination of the factor levels being bubbled .
both positive and negative enrichments were found , with large positive enrichments being found consistently only for the highest value of surfactant concentration .
the temperature study showed no significant enrichment differences for any of the three temperatures studied .
differential effects of phenobarbital and pentobarbital on isolated nervous tissue .
epileptiform after discharges evoked by repetitive electrical stimulation of chronically isolated cortical slabs ( cat ) were shortened by low doses of phenobarbital but not affected by hypnotic doses of pentobarbital .
both pentobarbital and phenobarbital raised threshold and lowered spike amplitude in isolated sciatic nerves .
the action of both drugs was increased by reducing na in the medium and by decreasing the ringer's ph .
similar to the action of other general anesthetics , the axonal effect of pentobarbital was enhanced by d2o replacement for h2o in the ringer's ( suggesting that tissue water is involved in pentobarbital action ) , whereas d2o replacement did not modify the action of phenobarbital or of local anesthetics .
these results suggest that the varying in vivo effects of pentobarbital and phenobarbital may be due to a difference in their action upon excitable membranes ( rather than to a different regional distribution in brain ) .
the reaction of horse-liver alcohol dehydrogenase with glyoxal .
horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase was reacted with glyoxal at different ph values ranging from 6.0 to 9.0 .
at ph 9.0 the enzyme undergoes a rapid activation over the first minutes of reaction , followed by a decline of activity , which reaches 10 % of that of the native enzyme .
chemical analysis of the inactivated enzyme after sodium borohydride reduction shows that 11 argi-ine and 11 lysine residues per mole are modified .
at ph 7.7 the enzyme activity increases during the first hour of the reaction with glyoxal and then decreases slowly .
chemical analysis shows that 4 arginine and 3 lysine residues per mole are modified in the enzyme at the maximum of activation .
at ph 7.0 the enzyme undergoes a 4-fold activation .
chemical analysis shows that in this activated enzyme 3 lysine and no arginine residues per mole have been modified .
steady-state kinetic analysis suggests that the activated enzyme is not subjected to substrate inhibition and that its michaelis constant for ethanol is three times larger than that of the native enzyme .
the possible role of arginine and lysine residues in the catalytic function of liver alcohol dehydrogenase is discussed .
the conformational oscillation of delta-chymotrypsin involvement of methionine-192 .
in delta-chymotrypsin the reactivity of methionine-192 towards p-nitrophenacyl bromide is strongly reduced when the alpha-amino group of isoleucine-16 has been acetylated .
since acetylation of isoleucine-16 brings delta-chymotrypsin to a conformation similar to its alkaline one this suggests that methionine-192 should present an impaired reactivity in the alkaline conformation of the protein .
it is indeed observed that its chemical reactivity as a function of ph depends on the ionization state of the alpha-amino group of isoleucine-16 ( pkapp 9 at 15 degrees c ) as does the structure of the enzyme .
reciprocally , after chemical reaction of methionine-192 with hydrogen peroxide , isoleucine-16 presents a slower rate of reaction with fluorescamine than when methionine-192 is free .
as a result of methionine-192 oxidation the apparent pk of the alkaline transition is shifted from 9 to about 11 at 15 degrees c .
this is reflected in the disappearance of the lag phase previously observed for the initial activity of the enzyme when it is incubated at alkaline ph [ eur. j. biochem. ( 1973 ) 39,293-300 ] .
the absence of chemical reactivity of methionine-192 in the alkaline state of the enzyme is confirmed by the appearance of a lag phase in the reaction of the protein with iodoacetate after an incubation at alkaline ph .
such a lag phase does not appear when this incubation is carried out at neutral ph .
since this lag phase is similar to that which shows up in the activity during the isomerization of the enzyme from its alkaline to its neutral state , the present data are interpreted as implying a concerted movement of isoleucine-16 and methionine-192 during this isomerization process .
they also indicate that in the alkaline form of the enzyme methionine-192 has moved back into the interior of the protein .
since the spectroscopic properties of the zymogen and of the high-ph form of the enzyme are similar they suggest that methionine-192 occupies in the alkaline conformation of the enzyme a similar position as it does in the zymogen .
investigations on the kinetic mechanism of octopine dehydrogenase .
1. steady-state kinetics .
the kinetic mechanism of action of octopine dehydrogenase was investigated .
this enzyme catalyses the reversible dehydrogenation of d-octopine to l-arginine and pyruvate , in the presence of nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide .
initial velocity and product inhibition studies were carried out in both directions .
most of the results are consistent with a bi-ter sequential mechanism where nad+ binds first to the enzyme followed by d-octopine , and the products are released in the order l-arginine , pyruvate and nadh .
various kinetic parameters were determined for each reactant at 33 degrees c , at ph 9.6 for nad reduction , at ph 6.6 for nadh oxidation .
the catalytic mechanism of carbonic anhydrase .
hydrogen-isotope effects on the kinetic parameters of the human c isoenzyme .
1. the steady-state kinetics of the interconversion of co2 and hco3 catalyzed by human carbonic anhydrase c was studied using 1h2o and 2h2o as solvents .
the ph-independent parts of the parameters k ( cat ) and km are 3-4 times larger in 1h2o than in 2h2o for both directions of the reaction , while the ratios k ( cat ) /km show much smaller isotope effects .
with either co2 or hco3 as substrate the major ph dependence is observed in k ( cat ) , while km appears independent of ph .
the pka value characterizing the ph-rate profiles is approximately 0.5 unit larger in 2h2o than in 1h2o .
2. the hydrolysis of p-nitrophenyl acetate catalyzed by human carbonic anhudrase c is approximately 35 % faster in 2h2o than in 1h2o .
in both solvents the pka values of the ph-rate profiles are similar to those observed for the co2-hco3 interconversion .
3. it is tentatively proposed that the rate-limiting step at saturating concentrations of co2 or hco3 is an intramolecular proton transfer between two ionizing groups in the active site .
it can not be decided whether the transformation between enzyme-bound co2 and hco3 involves a proton trnasfer or not .
purification and properties of isoenzymes of cinnamyl-alcohol dehydrogenase from soybean-cell-suspension cultures .
two isoenzymes of an nadp+ -dependent cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase and an nad+ - dependent aliphatic alcohol dehydrogenase were extracted from cell suspension cultures of soybean ( glycine max l. , var. mandarin ) which form lignin during growth .
these enzymes could be separated from each other by chromatography on deae-cellulose and hydroxyapatite .
the cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase isoenzymes were partially purified by ( nh4 ) 2so4 fractionation , and column chromatography on deae-cellulose , sephadex g-100 , and hydroxyapatite .
the molecular weight of the enzymes were estimated by the elution volumes from a sephadex g-100 column and were found to be about 43,000 ( isoenzyme 1 ) and 69,000 ( isoenzyme 2 ) .
maximum rates of reaction were observed in the case of coniferyl alcohol oxidation at ph 9.2 ( isoenzyme 1 ) and ph 8.8 ( isoenzyme 2 ) ; in the reverse reaction ph 6.5 was optimal for isoenzyme 2 .
whereas isoenzyme 1 is specific for coniferyl alcohol , isoenzyme 2 can also oxidize cinnamyl alcohol and a number of substituted cinnamyl alcohols , km values for substituted cinnamaldehydes are 3-11 times lower than for the corresponding alcohols .
neither isoenzyme reacted with benzyl alcohol , anisic alcohol or ethanol .
substrate inhibition for the forward and reverse reaction was found with isoenzyme 2 but not with isoenzyme 1 .
the equilibrium constant was determined to be about 10 ( 9 ) in favour of coniferaldehyde reduction .
the possible role of the cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase in lignin biosynthesis is discussed .
the pyruvate-dehydrogenase complex from azotobacter vinelandii .
2. regulation of the activity .
the presence of activators ( amp and sulphate ) or inhibitors ( acetyl-coa ) has no influence on the hill coefficient of the s-shaped [ pyruvate ] -- velocity curve of either the pyruvate-nad+ overall reaction ( h equals 2.5 ) or that of the pyruvate-k3fe ( cn ) 6 activity of the first enzyme ( h equals 1.3 ) .
ph studies indicated that the hill coefficient is dependent on subunit ionization within the pyruvate-containing complex and not on those in the free complex .
it is concluded that pyruvate conversion rather that pyruvate binding is responsible for the allosteric pattern .
the activity is due to absence of a protein kinase , mainly regulated at the acetyl-coa/coa , and nadh/nad+ levels and by the value of the energy charge .
arginine decarboxylase from lathyrus sativus seedlings .
purification and properites .
arginine decarboxylase which makes its appearance in lathyrus sativus seedlings after 24 h of seed germination reaches its highest level around 5-7 days , the cotyledons containing about 60 % of the total activity in the seedlings at day 5 .
the cytosol enzyme was purified 977-fold from whole seedlings by steps involving manganese chloride treatment , ammonium sulphate and acetone fractionations , positive adsorption on alumina c-gamma gel , deae-sephadex chromatography followed by preparative disc gel electrophoresis .
the enzyme was shown to be homogeneous by electrophoretic and immunological criteria , had a molecular weight of 220,000 and appears to be a hexamer with identical subunits .
the optimal ph and temperature for the enzyme activity were 8.5 and 45 degrees c respectively .
the enzyme follows typical michaelis-menten kinetics with a km value of 1.73 mm for arginine .
though mn2+ at lower concentrations stimulated the enzyme activity , there was no dependence of the enzyme on any metal for the activity .
the arginine decarboxylase of l. sativus is a sulfhydryl enzyme .
the data on co-factor requirement , inhibition by carbonyl reagents , reducing agents and pyridoxal phosphate inhibitors , and a partial reversal by pyridoxal phosphate of inhibition by pyridoxal-hcl suggests that pyridoxal 5'-phosphate is involved as a co-factor for the enzyme .
the enzyme activity was inhibited competitively by various amines including the product agmatine .
highest inhibition was obtained with spermine and arcain .
the substrate analogue , l-canavanine , homologue l-homoarginine and other basic amino acids like l-lysine and l-ornithine inhibited the enzyme activity competitively , homoarginine being the most effective in this respect .
yeast hexokinase a .
succinylation and properties of the active subunit .
yeast hexokinase a ( atp : d-hexose 6-phosphotransferase , ec2.7.1.1 ) dissociates into its subunits upon reaction with succinic anhydride .
the chemically modified subunits could be isolated in a catalytically active form .
the km values found for atp and for glucose were of the some order as those found for the native enzyme .
of the 37 amino groups present per enzyme subunit , 2-3 of these groups might be located in the proximity of the region of subunit interactions .
the 50 % loss of the initial activity , which follows the succinylation of these more reactive amino groups , does not seem to be due to the modification of a residue on the enzyme active site or to a change of the tertiary structure of the protein .
this 50 % loss of the enzyme activity may be related to the dissociation of the dimer into monomers .
both native enzyme and the succinylated subunits have the same h-dependent denaturation rate profiles in response to 2 m urea .
moreover , the apparent pk of the group involved in the transition from a more stable conformation of the protein in the acid range to a less stable one at alkaline ph seems to be similar to the pk of the group implicated in the transition between the protonated inactive form of the enzyme and an active deprotonated form .
the succinylated subunit presents 'negative co-operativity ' with respect to atp at slightly acid ph ; however , the burst-type slow transient in the reaction progress curve and the activation effect induced by physiological polyanions , effects observed for the native enzyme , were not detected in the standard experimental conditions with the succinylated subunit .
the renaturation of reduced polyalanyl-chymotrypsinogen and chymotrypsinogen .
chymotrypsinogen has been successfully renatured in solution , after reduction of its 5 disulfide bonds in 6 m guanidine-hcl .
this has been made possible by the study of the renaturation of a model derivative , polyalanyl-chymotrypsinogen .
the reduced derivative is shown to refold and reoxodize spontaneously , with a 30-40 % yield , into molecules which are monomeric and fully susceptible to activation by trypsin .
chymotrypsinogen can also be renatured but only in the presence of reagents allowing disulfide interchange and of moderate concentrations of guanidine-hcl or urea .
these results illustrate how the kinetic trapping of incorrectly folded molecules by wrong s-s bonds and aggregation can be overcome , thus allowing the correct refolding of the protein .
further studies on lipid-peroxide formation in isolated hepatocytes .
lipid peroxide formation was initiated by the addition of either adp-complexed fe3+ or cumene hydroperoxide to a suspension of isolated hepatocytes .
the reaction was monitored by malonaldehyde measurements .
upon the addition of iron , malonaldehyde production in the cells started immediately but ceased within 30-60 min , and the response was dose-related with iron concentrations ranging from 19 to 187 mum .
malonaldehyde formation was associated with increased oxygen uptake and conjugated diene production .
the addition in vitro of n , n , n ' , n'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine , menadione or p-benzoquinone inhibited the iron-induced malonaldehyde production .
it was also possible to demonstrate an apparent disappearance of malonaldehyde from fresh cells by addition of adequate amounts of n , n , n ' , n'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine ( 100 mum ) .
the attenuation of the iron-induced malonaldehyde production was found to be correlated with an increased binding of iron to an intracellular ferritin fraction .
further , malonaldehyde formation was also associated with a conversion of reduced glutathione to the oxidized form which , in turn , revealed a faster permeation out of the cells into the surrounding medium of the oxidized than of the reduced thiol .
so , concomitant with the redox alterations , there was also an overall loss of glutathione from the cells .
cumene hydroperoxide-induced malonaldehyde production could be initiated by the addition of this peroxide in concentrations ranging from 150 mum to the liver cell incubate .
with concentrations below 150 mum , a lag phase was present which seemed to be glutathione-dependent .
it is concluded that iron enters the cell , then is probably reduced inside the cell by nadph via the nadph-cytochrome p-450 reductase , and in the reduced state initiates lipid peroxidation .
the reaction is inhibited by intracellular mechanisms , the glutathione redox system being of principal importance , and possibly terminated by the iron-apoferritin complex formation .
on the mechanism of ketogenesis and its control .
purification , kinetic mechanism and regulation of different forms of mitochondrial acetoacetyl-coa thiolases from ox liver .
1. two mitochondrial forms of acetoacetyl-coa thiolases designated as enzyme a and enzyme b were crystallized from ox liver .
they could be shown to be homogenous by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis .
2. in direction of acetoacetyl-coa cleavage enzyme a shows a double competitive substrate inhibition when acetoacetyl-coa is varied at different fixed coa concentrations .
with enzyme b a parallel kinetic pattern is obtained when acetoacetyl-coa is varied at different fixed coa concentrations .
in direction of acetoacetyl-coa synthesis both enzymes show linear reciprocal plots of initial velocities against acetyl-coa concentrations in absence of coa .
these initial velocity kinetics in the forward and in the reverse direction are in accordance with a ping-pong mechanism of reaction for both enzymes involving an acetyl-s-enzyme as intermediate .
3. under saturating concentrations of substrate , the ratios of acetoacetyl-coa synthesis/aceto-acetyl-coa cleavage is 0.31 for enzyme a and 0.08 for enzyme b .
the maximum velocity in direction of acetoacetyl-coa synthesis of enzymes a and b are 0.43 mumol x min-1 x unit thiolase-1 and 0.10 mumol x min-1 x unit thiolase-1 , respectively .
4. both enzymes show nearly the same affinity for acetyl-coa .
the km values are 91 mum ( enzyme a ) and 80 mum ( enzyme b ) .
5. coenzyme a and acetoacetyl-coa both act as inhibitors in direction of acetoacetyl-coa synthesis : coenzyme a is a nonlinear competitive inhibitor of both enzymes .
acetoacetyl-coa exerts a negative cooperativity on enzyme a ( nh = 0.63 ) and is a competitive inhibitor for enzyme b ( ki = 1.6 mum ) .
6. the catalytic and regulatory properties of the acetoacetyl-coa thiolases a and b are discussed in terms of their proposed role in regulating ketogenesis .
intracellular fluctuations of acetoacetyl-coa/3-hydroxybutyryl-coa ratios , resulting in a suspension of inhibition of both enzymes at high nadh/nad ratios , are postulated as a control mechanism of ketogenesis in addition to mechanisms already known .
d-glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( entner-doudoroff enzyme ) from pseudomonas fluorescens .
purification , properties and regulation .
1. the existence of two different d-glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenases in pseudomonas fluorescens has been demonstrated .
based on their different specificity and their different metabolic regulation one enzyme is appointed to the entner-doudoroff pathway and the other to the hexose monophosphate pathway .
2. a procedure is described for the isolation of that d-glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase which forms part of the entner-doudoroff pathway ( entner-doudoroff enzyme ) .
a 950-fold purification was achieved with an overall yield of 44 % .
the final preparation , having a specific activity of about 300 mumol nadh formed per min per mg protein , was shown to be homogeneous .
3. the molecular weight of the entner-doudoroff enzyme has been determined to be 220000 by gel permeation chromatography , and that of the other enzyme ( zwischenferment ) has been shown to be 265000 .
4. the pi of the entner-doudoroff enzyme has been shown to be 5.24 and that of the zwischenferment 4.27 .
the entner-doudoroff enzyme is stable in the range of ph 6 to 10.5 and shows its maximal activity at ph 8.9. 5 .
the entner-doudoroff enzyme showed specificity for nad+ as well as for nadp+ and exhibited homotropic effects for d-glucose 6-phosphate .
it is inhibited by atp which acts as a negative allosteric effector .
other nucleoside triphosphates as well as adp are also inhibitory .
6. the enzyme catalyzes the transfer of the axial hydrogen at carbon-1 of beta-d-glucopyranose 6-phosphate to the si face of carbon-4 of the nicotinamide ring and must be classified as b-side stereospecific dehydrogenase .
purification and properties of potato 1,4-alpha-d-glucan:1,4-alpha-d-glucan 6-alpha- ( 1,4-alpha-glucano ) -transferase .
evidence against a dual catalytic function in amylose-branching enzyme .
q-enzyme , the enzyme that synthesizes the 1,6-alpha-glucosidic branch linkages of amylopectin , has been purified from potato to near homogeneity .
the molecular weight of the enzyme is 85000 .
the active enzyme is a monomer , with a molar activity at ph 7.0 and 24 degrees c of 15 .
the energy of activation is 25 kj/mol below 15 degrees c , changing sharply to 63 kj/mol above that temperature .
enzyme activity is not affected by mg2+ or atp .
there are about 11 readily titratable sulfhydryl groups per molecule .
the evidence that the enzyme is a single protein entity , without hydrolytic activity towards amylose , contrasts with an earlier report that q-enzyme consists of two components , a hydrolase with molecular weight 70000 , and a transferase with molecular weight 20000 .
q-enzyme acts on native and synthetic amyloses to give products resembling amylopectin in terms of average unit chain length , degress of beta-amylolysis and iodine stain .
the profiles of the unit chains of these synthetic products are , however , different from that of native amylopectin .
additional branch linkages are introduced by q-enzyme into potato amylopectin , but the product bears no resemblance to phytoglycogen .
factors affecting the molecular structure and the agglutinating ability of concanavalin a and other lectins .
ultracentrifugation analyses were performed on lectins under varying conditions of ph , ionic strength and temperature .
it has been demonstrated that the phytohemagglutinin from phaseolus vulgaris , the wheat germ agglutinin and the soybean agglutinin are stable when these parameters are varied , whereas the concanavalin a molecule exhibits a striking reversible dimer-tetramer transition with variation in ph ( from 6.0 to 7.2 ) and temperature ( from 4 degrees up to 37 degrees c ) .
it has also been demonstrated that , in agglutination experiments undertaken at different temperatures , cells do eventually aggregate with the first three lectins provided that incubation time is sufficient , whereas the concanavalin-a-induced agglutination was previously found to be temperature-sensitive .
these results strongly suggest that the effect of temperature on agglutination by lectins may essentially be due to a structural transition of the lectin itself and nott only to modification of cell surface properties .
axoplasm chemical composition in myxicola and solubility properties of its structural proteins .
the chemical composition of axoplasm extracted from the giant axon of myxicola infundibulum has been analysed , and some of the factors which disperse its gel structure have been identified .
2. the axoplasm contains about 3-6 % protein , and 0-12 % lipid .
it is isosmotic with sea water and has a ph near 7-0 .
3. inorganic ions in extracted axoplasm include : na+ , 13m-mole/kg wet wtl ; k+ , 280 ; cl- , 24 ; ca2+ , 0-3 ; mg2+ , 3. 4 .
free organic ions in axoplasm include : gly , 180 m-mole/kg wet st. ; cysteic acid , 120 ; asp , 75 ; glu , 10 ; ala , 7 ; tau , 5 ; thr , 2 ; gln and ser , trace ; homarine , 63 ; isethionate , 0. 5 .
the gel structure is dispersed by solutions containing 1 -- 10 mm-ca2+ , because this ion activates an endogenous protease .
the gel can also be dispersed without proteilysis by solutions containing 0-5 m-kcl , or 0-5 m guanidine hydrochloride , or 3-5 m urea , all of which break down neurofilaments .
6. it is argued that many aspects of the composition and dispersal properties of myxicola axoplasm are similar to those in other axons .
the metabolism of cyclohexanol by acinetobacter ncib 9871 .
acinetobacter ncib 9871 was isolated by elective culture on cyclohexanol and grows with this compound as sole source of carbon .
it displays a restricted growth spectrum , being unable to grow on a wide range of alternative alicyclic alcohols and ketones .
cyclohexanol-grown cells oxidize the growth substrate at a rate of 230 mul of o2/h per mg dry wt with the consumption of 5.65 mumol of o2/mumol substrate .
cyclohexanone is oxidized at a similar rate with the consumption of 4.85 mumol of o2/mumol .
1-oxa-2-oxocycloheptane and 6-hydroxyhexanoate are both oxidized at the same slow rate of 44 mul of o2/h per mg dry wt and adipate is not oxidized .
studies with cell extracts reveal the presence of inducible dehydrogenases for cyclohexanol , 6-hydroxyhexanoate and 6-oxohexanoate and a monooxygenase , that in conjunction with a lactonase converts cyclohexanone to 6-hydroxyhexanoate .
the monooxygenase is therefore presumed to be of the lactone-forming type and the pathway for conversion of cyclohexanol to adipate ; cyclohexanol leads to cyclohexanone leads to 1-oxa-2-oxocycloheptane leads to 6-hydroxyhexanoate leads to 6-oxohexanoate leads to adipate ; for which key intermediates have been identified chromatographically , is identical with the route for the oxidation of cyclohexanol by nocardia globerula cl1 .
multiple forms of human glutathione s-transferase and their affinity for bilirubin .
the initial enzymic step in mercapturic acid formation is catalyzed by glutathione s-transferase .
several species of this enzyme , designated as transferases alpha , beta , gamma , delta and epsilon on the basis of increasing isoelectric points , were isolated from human liver .
evidence is presented that each of the purified species is homogeneous with respect to sodium dodecylsulfate-gel electrophoresis .
transferases alpha , beta and epsilon each appear as a single band on gel electrofocusing ; transferases gamma and delta are present as two and three bands , respectively , with each band catalytically active .
amino acid analysis indicated the five transferases to be either very closely related or identical in this respect .
all enzyme species have a molecular weight of about 48500 and consist of two apparently identical subunits .
the spectrum of substrates is the same for each although the enzymes differ slightly in specific activity .
as is the case for the rat liver enzymes , each of the human transferases binds bilirubin although this compound is not a substrate .
hydrophobic interaction determined by partition in aqueous two-phase systems .
partition of proteins in systems containing fatty-acid esters of poly ( ethylene glycol ) .
in this report we describe a new method which is useful for measuring hydrophobic interactions between aliphatic hydrocarbon chains and proteins in aqueous environment .
the method is based on partition of proteins in an aqueous two-phase system containing dextran and poly ( ethylene glycol ) and different fatty acid esters of poly ( ethylene glycol ) .
the partition is measured under conditions where contributions from electrostatic interactions are eliminated .
the difference in partition of proteins in phase systems with and without hyrocarbon groups bound to poly ( ethylene glycol ) , deltalog k , where k is the partition coefficient , is taken as a measure of hydrophobic interaction .
deltalog k varies with size of hydrocarbon chain and type of protein .
the length of the aliphatic chain should be greater than 8 carbon atoms in order to get a measurable effect in terms of deltalog k .
bovine serum albumin , beta-lactoglobulin , hemoglobin and myoglobin have been shown to have different affinities for palmitic acid ester of poly ( ethylene glycol ) .
no hydrophobic effect could be observed for ovalbumin , cytochrome c or alpha-chymotrypsinogen a .
spin-labelled phosphofructokinase .
a simple and direct approach to the study of allosteric equilibria under near-physiological conditions .
rabbit muscle phosphofructokinase , spin-labelled at its most reactive thiol group , has an electron spin resonance spectrum which is very sensitive to the binding of substrates and allosteric effectors .
the spectral changes have been interpreted in terms of a concerted allosteric transition between two conformational states with non-exclusive binding of effectors .
on this basis mgatp , fructose 6-phosphate plus atp , and nh+4ions behave as potent positive effectors , inorganic phosphate , sulphate , amp , fructose 6-phosphate and fructose 1,6-bisphosphate are less potent activators , and free atp and h+ions are negative effectors , in agreement with the kinetic behaviour , but citrate behaves anomalously .
in addition , the allosteric equilibrium can be displaced towards the inhibited state by selectively modifying two further thiol groups .
strong positive cooperativity occurs under suitable conditions with atp , metal-atp and fructose 6-phosphate .
biphasic changes of conformation , attributed to binding at the catalytic and inhibitory sites , have been observed in titrations with atp .
the differentiation of the two atp binding sites arises in the presence of fructose 6-phosphate because of a distinct concerted effect on conformation between the two substrates at the active site .
a similar effect occurs between atp and citrate .
other heterotropic effects are more consistent with simple models ; phosphates favour the binding , and reduce the cooperativity , of fructose 6-phosphate and metal-atp , whereas excess atp and h+ ions antagonise the binding and increase the cooperativity of fructose 6-phosphate .
the observations are related to existing kinetic and binding studies where possible .
anomalous features of the behaviour suggest that the model should be regarded only as a first approximation .
cytochrome c interaction with membranes .
absorption and emission spectra and binding characteristics of iron-free cytochrome c .
a cytochrome c derivative from which iron is removed has been prepared and characterized .
several lines of evidence indicate that native and porphyrin cytochrome c have similar conformations : they have similar elution characteristics on sephadex gel chromatography ; in both proteins the tryptophan fluorescence is quenched and the pk values of protonation of the porphyrin are identical .
porphyrin cytochrome c does not substitute for native cytochrome c in either the oxidase reaction or in restoring electron transport in cytochrome-c-depleted mitochondria .
it does however competitively inhibit native cytochrome c in these reactions , the ki for inhibition being larger than the km for reaction .
the absorption and emission spectra , and the polarized excitation spectrum of the porphyrin cytochrome c are characteristic of free base porphyrin .
the absence of fluorescence quenching of porphyrin cytochrome c when the protein is bound to cytochrome oxidase suggests that heme to heme distance between these proteins is larger than 0.5 to 0.9 nm depending upon orientation .
binding of the porphyrin cytochrome c to phospholipids or to mitochondria increases the fluorescence polarization of a positively polarized absorption band , which indicates that the bound form of the protein does not rotate freely within the time scale of relaxation from the excited state .
the trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitors in chick peas ( cicer arietinum l. ) .
purification and properties of the inhibitors .
from a crude extract of chick peas ( cicer arietinum l. ) inhibitors of trypsin and chymotrypsin were isolated by affinity chromatography on a column of trypsin-sepharose 6b .
the content of inhibitors was found to be 1.5 g/kg .
they were further separated into six isoinhibitors by ion-exchange chromatography on deae-sephadex a-25 .
two of the isoinhibitors accounted for about 50 % of the isolated inhibitors and were further purified to a homogeneous state .
the isoinhibitors had a molecular weight of about 10000 as determined by molecular-sieve chromatography on sephadex g-75 .
they were stable towards extremes of ph and temperatures up to 75 degrees c or towards digestion by pepsin .
they were also stable in 6 m urea but not in 6 m guanidine-hcl .
the intact inhibitors were destroyed when the peas were cooked at 100 degrees c or when they were toasted at 130 degrees c .
the four major inhibitors had similar amino acid compositions and did not contain detectable amounts of free sulfhydryl groups , tryptophan or carbohydrate .
cysteine is the dominant amino acid residue in all of them and accounted for about 20 % of their amino acid content .
the isoelectric point of the isoinhibitors lies in the range of ph 4.9-8.6 and two of the major inhibitors had isoelectric points of ph 4.75 and ph 4.96 .
they inhibited chymotrypsin to the same extent but differed in their inhibitory activities towards trypsin , indicating that they are mixtures of native and trypsinmodified forms and that they probably have separate sites for the two enzymes .
they did not inhibit other proteolytic enzymes belonging to two groups ( i.e. , serine or cysteine enzymes ) or originating from different sources ( i.e. , animals , plants or bacteria ) .
investigations of the structure of 3-methylcrotonyl-coa carboxylase from achromobacter .
it was shown by gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecylsulphate solution that 3-methylcrotonyl-coa carboxylase from achromobacter ivs is composed of two different subunits with molecular weights of about 78000 and 96000 , respectively .
the biotin is bound to the heavier subunit .
it was previously found that 3-methylcrotonyl-coa carboxylase contains four biotin molecules per complex .
a complex composed of four of each subunit would thus have a molecular weight of about 700000 .
this is compatible with the molecular weight of 760000 determined earlier by analytical ultracentrifugation .
both subunits were isolated preparatively .
as the subunits , unlike the complex , are very sensitive to oxygen , special precautions had to be taken during isolation .
the biotin-containing subunit was isolated by chromatography on deae-cellulose in 5 m urea .
it no longer catalyzed the overall reaction , yet could still carboxylate free biotin .
the biotin-free subunit was separated after dissociation of the enzyme by three-days ' dialysis at ph 9.8 under nitrogen .
on chromatography over a sepharose-bound avidin column , the biotin-subunit was fixed and the biotin-free subunit was eluted unretarded .
the latter subunit showed no enzymic activity .
after the addition of the biotin-containing subunit , overall activity was regenerated .
the speed of reassociation is very much enhanced by 3-methylcrotonyl-coa .
it was shown by reassociation experiments under different conditions that probably an initial complex , axby is formed , possessing a binding site for 3-methylcrotonyl-coa .
upon the binding of this substrate the conformation may be changed to a form favourable for reconstitution .
finally , the structures of biotin enzymes from different sources are compared .
in the course of evolution there is a tendency toward integration of the different constituent proteins into only one polypeptide chain .
polyadenylated rna from vicia faba meristematic root cells .
localization and size estimation of the poly ( a ) segment .
after incubating root apices from two-day-old bean seedlings with [ 3h ] adenine the rna was extracted from whole cells or polysomes , and the poly ( a ) sequences were isolated by nuclease digestion followed by poly ( u ) -sepharose chromatography .
the alterations of the rna molecules due to the various treatments were monitored by sucrose density gradients .
it was found that sequential extraction first at ph 7.6 then at ph 9.0 did not result in a separation between rna poor in poly ( a ) sequences and poly ( a ) -rich rna .
furthermore chromatography analysis of hydrolysates from nuclease-resistant rna extracted either at ph 7.6 or ph 9.0 revealed that amp constituted nearly 95 % of the bases and that the poly ( a ) sequences , about 200 bases , were located at the 3 ' terminus of the polyadenylated rna .
no size difference was found for the poly ( a ) segment between the ph-7.6-extracted rna and that extracted at ph 9.0 .
time-dependent inhibition of diamine oxidase by carbonyl-group reagents and urea .
1. the behaviour of several carbonyl group reagents and urea as time-dependent inhibitors of both pig kidney and human placental diamine oxidase is described .
2. plots of log ( vt/vo ) against time were not linear with these reagents as the usual theories predict .
3. this was particularly the case with aminoguanidine and phenylhydrazine and a thorough study of the effects of these compounds on the human placental diamine oxidase is described .
4. by applying a new theory for time-dependent inhibition , the inhibition of diamine oxidase by aminoguanidine and phenylhydrazine is adequately accounted for .
5. the time-dependent recovery of activity on addition of sodium pyruvate suggested that the compounds used are acting solely as carbonyl group reagents , inhibiting by schiff-base formation at the active-site carbonyl group .
acetylglucagon : preparation and characterization .
acetylated derivatives of glucagon have been prepared by reacting this hormone under various conditions with acetic anhydride .
they have been chemically characterized by the use of a 14c-labeled reagent , by peptide mapping techniques following hydrolysis by pronase and chymotrypsin , and by spectroscopy .
acetylation in sodium acetate ( ph 5.5 ) results in a full substitution of the alpha-amino group of the n-terminal histidyl residue , but in a partial ( about 0.3 acetyl group per residue ) substitution of the epsilon-amino group of the lysyl residue 12 .
the monosubstituted ( on the alpha-amino group ) and the disubstituted ( on both amino groups ) acetylated components have been separated by chromatography on deae-cellulose and cm-cellulose .
acetylation in sodium bicarbonate ( ph 8.0 ) results in a complete substitution of both amino groups and of the hydroxyl groups of the tyrosyl residues 10 and 13 .
complete deacetylation of the o-acetyltyrosyl residues occurs upon treatment with hydroxyl-amine .
mono , di and tetraacetylglucagon are homogeneous when analyzed by disc gel electrophoresis ; di and tetrasubstituted derivatives show an increased mobility towards the anode .
125i-labeled derivatives of acetylglucagon show higher distribution coefficients in the aqueous two-phase dextran/poly ( ethylene glycol ) system than do similar derivatives of glucagon .
acetylation decreases in parallel the ability of glucagon to stimulate the activity of adenylate cyclase and to bind to its receptors in liver cell membranes of the rat .
the biological potencies of the mono , di and tetrasubstituted derivates are , respectively , about 10 , 1 and 0.1 % that of native glucagon .
the binding properties of the material dissociated from the acetylglucagon-receptor complex suggest that the reduction in biological activity results from a decrease in the intrinsic affinity of the modified glucagon for the receptors , as well as from the presence of small amounts of residual , unreacted glucagon .
studies with 125i-labeled derivatives of glucagon indicate that acetylation decreases the rate of association and increases the rate of dissociation of the hormone-receptor complex .
purification and properties of a periplasmic aminoendopeptidase from escherichia coli .
a periplasmic aminoendopeptidase from escherichia coli has been purified to hemogeneity .
it is a monomer of molecular weight 45000 and containing one -- sh group that is necessary for catalytic activity .
the study of its substrate specificity indicated that the enzyme has both aminopeptidase and endopeptidase activity .
the ph optimum for l-alanine p-nitroanilide hydrolysis is between 7 and 7.5 and that for 125i-labeled casein proteolysis between 7.3 and 7.6 .
the activation energy for the hydrolysis of l-anine p-nitroanilide was calculated to be 5.3 kcal x mol-1 ( 22.2 kj x mol-1 ) .
the interaction of organic phosphates with human and chicken hemoglobin .
in this study of the binding properties of inositol hexaphosphate and 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate to chicken and human deoxyhemoglobin and carboxyhemoglobin were compared .
it appeared that in all cases the binding to chicken hemoglobin is much stronger than to human hemoglobin .
this is very probably due to the fact that 4 out of the 12 residues , responsible for the binding of phosphates in chicken hemoglobin , are arginines .
these are absent in human hemoglobin , where the binding site is made up to only 8 residues .
for chicken hemoglobin one strong binding site could be observed in both unliganded and liganded hemoglobin .
from these observations we conclude that the same binding site is involved in both the oxy- and deoxy structure showing different affinity to phosphates in the two conformational states .
for human hemoglobin we reached the same conclusion .
hepatic nucleases .
extrahepatic origin and association of neutral liver ribonuclease with lysosomes .
in the large granule fraction of rat liver , the density distribution of inhibitor-sensitive neutral ribonuclease is similar to that for acid hydrolases and its density distribution is similarly modified by triton wr-1339 accumulation in lysosomes .
particulate neutral ribonuclease is latent ; the enzyme is unmasked by very low digitonin concentrations or hypoosmotic shock .
these observations demonstrate that the bulk of liver neutral ribonuclease is associated with the lysosomal system .
in view of the neutral ph optimum of the enzyme and of some particularities of its distribution in fractionation experiments , the possiblilty of an extrahepatic origin of neutral ribonuclease has been investigated .
after partial pancreatectomy , a significant decrease is observed in both plasma and liver neutral ribonuclease .
the effect is specific , for it does not occur for other lysosomal enzymes .
also , labelled bovine pancreatic ribonuclease , when injected intravenously , is taken up by the liver .
the sedimentable labelled enzyme has a density distribution similar to the distribution of other foreign proteins , horseradish peroxidase or yeast invertase .
these results are explained by the uptake of plasmatic neutral ribonuclease from pancreatic origin by the liver .
glutathione reductase from human erythrocytes .
molecular weight , subunit composition and aggregation properties .
glutathione reductase from human erythrocytes exists predominatly as an entity of 100 000 molecular weight under various conditions of ph and ionic strength .
the s20 , w of 5.5 s and d20w of 50 mum2/s correlate with the molecular weight determined by sedimentation equilibrium .
the homogeneity of this species is primarily dependent on the presence of thiols and secondarily on high concentrations of salt .
the amino-acid composition of the enzyme shows similarities both with glutathione reductases from other sources and with lipoamide dehydrogenase .
from the flavin content and dodecylsulphate-polyacrylamide electrophoresis it is inferred that the native enzyme is a dimer composed of similar subunits of 50 000 molecular weight .
in the absence of thiols , glutathione reductase shows a tendency to form tetramers and larger aggregates .
although these larger species are also catalytically active , under cellular conditions the presence of its product , reduced glutathione , should maintain the enzyme as the dimeric entity .
gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase of sheep-kidney cortex .
isolation , catalytic properties and dissociation into two polypeptide chains .
gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was isolated from sheep kidney cortex as an apparently homogeneous , highly active protein .
at optimal ph and in the absence of acceptors , the enzyme catalyzes the release of about 510 mumol of p-nitroaniline per mg protein per min from the model substrate l-gamma-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide .
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in a sodium dodecylsulfate buffer system showed the presence of a large ( mr approximately 65000 ) and a small ( mr approximately 27000 ) polypeptide chain .
dissociation into two polypeptide chains was also achieved in 8 m urea .
amidination with dimethylsuberimidate produced a crosslinked protein of molecular weight approximately 90000 .
in the course of this work a convenient procedure was developed for the determination of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity using l [ glycine-2-3h ] glutathione as the substrate .
in this procedure the release of cysteinyl- [ 2-3h ] glycine from glutathione is followed , after separation of the radioactive di-peptide from unreacted glutathione on a small dowex-1 acetate column .
the reactions with gamma-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide and glutathione are both strongly activated by several metal ions ( ca2+ , mg2+ , na+ and k+ ) and by a number of amino acids and peptide acceptors .
the products of the reaction with glutathione were identified as cysteinylglycine , gamma-glutamylglutathione and glutamate .
the formation of these products is consistent with the function of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase in both the gamma-glutamyl transfer reaction and in the hydrolysis of the gamma-glutamyl bond .
the activating effect of metal ions in the reaction with glutathione was shown to be dependent on the acceleration of the transfer reaction ; the rate of hydrolysis of the gamma-glutamyl bond remaining unchanged .
pyrophosphatase and glucuronosyltransferase in microsomal udpglucuronic-acid metabolism in the rat liver .
1. a radiochemical method for the studies on the microsomal udpglucuronic acid metabolism has been developed .
2. the rat liver microsomes caused a rapid hydrolysis of udpglucuronic acid to d-glucuronic acid 1-phosphate and further although much slower to free d-glucuronic acid .
in tris-hcl buffer ( ph 7.4 ) they were produced in ratio 72 : 1 .
no other metabolites were found in measurable amounts .
the pyrophosphatase splitting udpglucuronic acid showed a ph optimum at 8.9 , but the liberation of d-glucuronic acid from udpglucuronic acid had two ph maxima ( ph 3.5 and 8.5 ) .
edta appeared to be less powerful inhibitor of pyrophosphatase than previously suggested .
about 25 per cent of the udpglucuronic acid hydrolyzing activity was still remaining in the presence of 10 mm edta .
d-glucaro-1,4-lactone was found to have a slight inhibitory action on the pyrophosphatase activity .
citrate inhibited powerfully the hydrolysis of udpglucuronic acid and the liberation of free d-glucuronic acid .
phosphate was also inhibitory .
3. in the presence of an exogenous udpglucuronosyltransferase substrate , 4-nitrophenol , the formation of d-glucuronic acid 1-phosphate and free d-glucuronic acid were slightly reduced , and d-glucuronic acid 1-phosphate , 4-nitrophenylglucuronide and free d-glucuronic acid were produced in ratio 78 : 23 : 1 .
when 10 mm edta was added to diminish the hydrolytic consumption of the glucuronyl donor substrate , the corresponding ratio was still as unfavorable as 19 : 2.6 : 1 .
the measurable activity of udpglucuronosyltransferase was lower in the presence of phosphate or citrate than in tris-hcl buffer , although they protected the glucuronyl donor substrate against hydrolysis .
4. the results indicate that even in the presence of added glucuronyl acceptor substrate the hydrolysis of udpglucuronic acid predominates the conjugation in rat liver microsomes .
the rate of the hydrolysis of udpglucuronic acid is quite considerable even in the presence of edta , and it is recommended to control the udpglucuronic acid pyrophosphatase activity when udpglucuronosyltransferase and glucuronidation reactions are studied .
free d-glucuronic acid appears to be produced from udpglucuronic acid for further use via d-glucuronic acid 1-phosphate , the rate-limiting step being the hydrolysis of this intermediate .
udp-glucuronosyltransferase , glucuronides of either endogenous or exogenous aglycones and beta-glucuronidase have only a minor role in this respect in rat liver microsomes .
coupling of enzymes to polyacrylonitrile .
incorporation of ( 1-14c ) palmitoyl-coa into phosphatidylcholine by plasma membranes of rat submaxillary glands in vitro .
1. on incubation with the isolated rat submaxillary gland plasma membranes , [ 1-14c ] palmitoyl-coa was incorporated mainly into phosphatidylcholine and hydrolysed to [ 1-14c ] palmitic acid and coash .
2. the addition of lysophosphatidylcholine enhanced the incorporation into phosphatidylcholine and lowered the hydrolysis of palmitoyl-coa markedly .
3. in the presence of lysophosphatidylcholine , palmitoyl-coa incorporation into phosphatidylcholine was maximum at 0.1 mm palmitoyl-coa , 0.5 mm lysophosphatidylcholine and between ph 7.0 and 9.0. 4 .
the incorporation into phosphatidylcholine was stimulated by na+ , k+ and k- , inhibited by ca2+ and mg2+ and unaffected by sodium deoxycholate and atp .
5. epinephrine inhibited the incorporation of palmitoyl-coa into phosphatidylcholine in the presence or absence of atp , the inhibition being more in the presence of atp than in its absence .
dibutyryl adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate mimicked the inhibitory effect of epinephrine .
hydrogen-isotope exchange of oxidized and reduced cytochrome c .
a comparison of mass spectrometry and infrared methods .
hydrogen-deuterium exchange in 2h20 solutions of the two redox states of horse heart cytochrome c was investigated at 20 degrees c , ph 7 , by mass spectrometry and infrared spectroscopy .
mass spectrometry indicates that ferricytochrome has 20 hydrogens unexchanged after 24 h , 28 hydrogens exchanging between 10 min and 24 h , and 156 hydrogens exchanging within 10 min ; comparative values for ferrocytochrome are 45 , 19 and 140 .
the displacement of the exchange curves obtained by infrared corresponds to 8 to 9 peptide hydrogens .
these combined methods show many non-peptide hydrogens exchanging rapidly ( 87 and 79 for ferricytochrome c and ferrocytochrome c respectively ) , whereas others , probably buried inside the molecule and involved in hydrogen bonds , are not exchanged , even after 24 h ( 14 and 30 hydrogens respectively , which is relatively large for a small protein ) .
infrared results are given in terms of changes of standard free energy for the transconformational reaction which exposes the peptide hydrogens to solvent : in ferricytochrome c and ferrycoytochrome c , 30 % and 40 % respectively of the peptide hydrogens are protected by conformational transitions stabilized by more than 5 kcal/mol ( 21 kj/mol ) , which implies a large increase in rigidity for the reduced form .
bacterial metabolism of resorcinylic compounds : purification and properties of orcinol hydroxylase and resorcinol hydroxylase from pseudomonas putida orc .
the hydroxylase activities observed in extracts of pseudomonas putida orc after growth on orcinol and resorcinol as sole source of carbon have been purified to homogeneity .
both enzymes were shown to be flavoproteins and to contain approximately 1 mol of fad for each polypeptide chain , s20 , w values for each enzyme are 4.1 +/- 0.1 and are independent of the presence of their aromatic substrates .
molecular weight determinations under native ( approximately 68000 ) and denaturing ( approximately 70000 ) conditions indicated that they are monomeric .
the visible absorption spectra identical but the circular dichroic spectra of the two proteins can be distinguished .
although each protein catalyzes the nad ( p ) h and o2-dependent hydroxylation of both orcinol and resorcinol , the efficiency of the transformations of the substrates by the two enzymes is radically different ; furthermore resorcinol hydroxylase is much more versatile in the aromatic compounds it can utilize as substrates and effectors .
other properties of the enzymes which clearly establish their own identity include their serological characteristics and amino acid composition ; the latter property is particularly evident when the quantities of valine and alanine residues are compared .
the synthesis of each enzyme is also under different regulatory constraints , being controlled by the substrate used for growth .
studies on biosynthesis of soluble lens crystallin antigens in the chick by isoelectric focusing in thin-layer polyacrylamide gel .
effect of oral administration of various beta-blocking agents on the intraocular pressure in healthy volunteers .
biochemical aspects of the visual process .
xxxi .
chemical modification studies on rod outer segment retinol dehydrogenase .
hemodynamics and its regulation in old age .
altered responsiveness of adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-generating systems in rat cortical slices after lesions of the medial forebran bundle .
differences between the heavy chains of fast and slow muscle myosin .
bufuralol , a new beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent .
[ determination of some beta adrenergic blockaders by means of thin-layer chromatography and gas chromatography ] .
the pka value of the active site histidine in photo-oxidised papain .
crystalline aspartate aminotransferase from pseudomonas striata .
[ possible structural-functional organization of the system of local cerebral blood flow regulation ] .
rcbf under normal conditions in the rabbit , cat , and monkey brain was found to have a spontaneous periodicity while rcbf responses to afferent flicker stimulation usually revealed a double-phasic fluctuative pattern .
this suggests that the rcbf regulatory system consists of not less than two regulatory chains with different time constants , and a feedback .
the data on cerebral vascular responses to microapplication of mcsf solutions with various ph , potassium and catecholamines concentrations , suggest that rapid regulatory chains may be conditioned by potassium and neurogenic vascular effects , while slow ones could be mediated by co2 and related ph changes .
[ regulation of local tissue po2 in the cerebral cortex of the cat ] .
local po2 was measured in the cat cortex on adjacent sites with a platinum multiwire surface electrode both during steady state conditions and with varying arterial oxygen supply .
concomitantly , po2 in the sinus sagittalis was recorded continuously through the vascular wall .
under normoxia and steady state conditions local tissue po2 values varied between o torr and almost arterial levels of 85 torr in accordance with theoretical calculations .
with increased arterial oxygen supply local tissue po2 as measured on agjacent sites was found to react fairly differently .
linear increases in local tissue po2 as compared with arterial po2 , as well as constant levels , or only very small increases , were recorded .
the constancy of local po2 ( = '' local po2 autoregulation '' ) was caused by local vasoconstriction .
with reduced supply of arterial oxygen , however , tissue po2 dropped in all studied sites down to hypoxia and anoxia .
po2 autoregulation during a decrease in arterial po2 , as described by bicher ( 1973 ) could not be found .
[ differences in the responses of taste receptors to organic and inorganic acids with changes in the concentration of bicarbonate in the solution ] .
the thresholds of the ph for citric acid ( ph=4.9 ) were found to exceed by 1.4 ph the thresholds for hc1 ( 3.5 ) at 1.2 mmol/1 bicarbonate in the solution .
the reaction to citric acid was higher than to hc1 at equal ph .
decreasing of bicarbonate from 1.2 mmol/1 to 0 reduced ph threshold only for sitric acid from 4.90 to 3.15. ph threshold for hc1 remained 3.5 the chorda tympani response to stimulation with solutions containing bicarbonate ( 1.2 mmol/1 ) was higher than in absence of bicarbonate .
the data obtained suggest two ranges of the acids in action .
[ indices of intraduodenal ph-ography in dogs ] .
analysis of skin grafts across the msa-barrier in mice pretreated with sera from specifically or syngeeically grafted donors .
prolonged survival of weakly incompatible skin allografts in mice ( across the barrier presented by the msa ) can be induced by pretreating the recipients not only with a specific anti-msa serum ( obtained on day 5 after a single msa-incompatible skin graft ) but also be means of control serum obtained in a similar way from the recipients of fully compatible ( syngeneic ) skin grafts .
administration of serum from non-grafted mice had no effect on graft survival .
the similar biological effect of both sera had a counterpart in their similar content and spectrum of glycosaminoglycans .
also in the skin grafts themselves , the course of both qualitative and quantitative changes of gag in the early postgrafting period was in the allogeneic and syngeneic situation similar .
the possible role of these substances in the serum and at the site of grafting and their effect on the outcome of the allograft response are discussed .
impaired sertoli cell function in experimental cryptorchidism in the rat .
the production of testicular androgen-binding protein ( abp ) , as a measure of sertoli cell function , was studied after unilateral or bilateral experimental cryptorchidism in adult rats .
two or 4 weeks after the testis had been translocated to the abdomen , no major changes were found in the concentration of abp per mg protein , although there was a marked and progressive decrease in abp content per testis .
however , the rate of abp production was greatly decreased , as measured by the accumulation of abp during 16-h ligation of the efferent ducts or by the production of abp by testis mince in an in vitro system .
this indicates that the sertoli cell function is severly impaired by the intra-abdominal position .
aminoacyl-trna binding activity in regenerating kidney following contralateral nephrectomy or administration of folic acid .
effect of normal and ulcer-type diet on the acidity of gastric contents in patients with duodenal ulcer .
patients with uncomplicated duodenal ulcer were given two types of diet -a normal and a ulcer-type diet .
the data obtained did not show any statistically significant difference between the action of the two diets .
no evidence was then found to be in support of the still widely used restricted diet in the treatment of peptic ulcer .
dr. gordon bates : a personal war against vd .
protection from carriers of hepatitis b .
crisis in the lab .
the accreditation approach to infection control .
epidemiology and infection control .
the medical microbiologist and infection control .
infection control demand administrative support .
disposal of infectious wastes .
editorials : more health care with less .
order and disorder at hospital meetings .
government freezes administrators ' salaries .
patient classification does work .
pharmaceutical services in special care homes .
statistical insight through h.i.s .
has h.i.s. attained cruising speed ?
the soybean answer to food costs .
job satisfaction in a chronic care facility .
psychiatric myths and their victims .
restraint may force quicker cost-sharing .
collection of out-of-province accounts .
the oxygen transport system of red blood cells during diabetic ketoacidosis and recovery .
daily evaluations of 8 newly detected ketoacidotic diabetics showed the bohr-effect of haemoglobin to be decreased by 50 % while erythrocyte 2,3-dpg was decreased below 10 mumoles/g hb .
2,3-dpg correlated strongly with ph during acidosis and with plasma inorganic phosphate ( pi ) subsequently to the first insulin administration .
oxygen affinity of haemoglobin , measured as p50 act ph , was unchanged in ketoacidosis compared to the time , however , p50 act ph fell striking ( p less than 0.001 ) and remained decreased up to 7 days depending upon the resynthesis of 2,3-dpg in relation to pi .
the hill-coefeficient in reflecting the slope of the oxygen dissociation curve was diminished in ketoacidosis ( p less than 0.005 ) , and decreased further after ph-normalization ( p less than 0.005 ) .
there was a close association of n with 2,3-dpg ( p less than 0.001 ) and additionally with pi at 2,3-dpg-levels below 10 mumoles/g hb .
based on these findings a decreased erythrocyte oxygen release of one fifth during acidosis and more than one third after ph-correction can be hypothesised .
in view of the intimate relation of pi to the oxygen transport system it is suggesed that treatment of ketoacidosis should include pi-sugstitution .
fluorescence of oxidized flavoproteins from perifused isolated pancreatic islets .
in perifused pancreatic islets , the fluorescence of oxidized flavoproteins ( fad ) was recorded continuously .
elevation of glucose concentration in the medium form 0 or 5 mm to 20 mm led to decrease in fad-fluorescence beginning 10 sec after change of medium .
l-leucine ( 10 mm ) , ( +/- ) -b-bch ( 20 mm ) and alpha-ketoisocaproic acid ( 10 mm ) caused typical kinetics of fad-fluorescence decrease .
the results are interpreted to indicate rapid changes of the functional state of b-cell mitochondria induced by the above-mentioned stimulators of insulin release .
letter : panarteritis and regional enteritis .
comparison of amino acids bathing the oxyntic gland area in the stimulation of gastric secretion .
this study was undertaken to compare the ability of l- and d-isomers of amino acids bathing the oxyntic gland area to stimulate acid secretion in conscious dogs with heidenhain pouch ( hp ) , gastric fistula ( gf ) and pancreatic fistula ( pf ) .
acid outputs from hp were determined by an intragastric titration method when amino acid solutions were perfused into hp at various concentrations , ph values , and distention pressures .
only l-isomers of all natural amino acids were found to stimulate acid secretion , whereas d-isomers of amino acids tested were completely inert in this respect .
the comparison of the secretagogue activity of amino acids shows that l-histidine among essential amino acids and glycine among nonessential amino acids exhibited the strongest stimulation of acid outputs , reaching , respectively , 52 and 40 % of the maximal response to histamine .
decreasing the ph of l-histidine solution perfused into hp in sequential order from 5.0 to 1.0 resulted in a stepwise reduction of acid output , falling at ph 1.0 to about 40 % of the peak response achieved at ph 5.0 .
local irrigation of hp by 2 % xylocaine and intravenous infusion of atropine ( 100 mug per kg per hr ) or metiamide ( 2.9 mg per kg per hr ) reduced but did not abolish hp response to chemical stimulation and the ph dependency of this response .
we conclude that only l- and not d-isomers of amino acids bathing the oxyntic gland area stimulate acid secretion by a local , gastrin-independent mechanism sensitive to distention pressure and ph .
evidence of tandem duplication of genes in a merodiploid region of pneumococcal mutants resistant to sulfonamide .
a pneumococcal mutant , sulr-c , resistant to sulfonamides , and three transformants bearing associated d or d+ resistance markers have earlier been reported to be unstable and show distinct patterns and frequencies of segregating stable progeny lacking the c marker .
each of the four strains showed a characteristic dosage of the genes involved in the merodiploidy .
complementary strands of dna's from these stable and unstable strains were resolved and homoduplex and heteroduplex hybrids made from the separated dna strands were used as donors in genetic transformations .
activities of a normal marker ( streptomycin resistance ) and those involved in the heterozygosity ( c , d and d+ ) were quantitatively measured .
from those heteroduplexes made up of opposite strands derived from a heterozygote and a stable strain , the normal marker is transferred efficiently , but the heterozygous markers are not .
on the other hand , if both strands of a heteroduplex are derived from different heterozygotic strains , all markers can be transferred with usual efficiency to a stable recipient strain .
the lowered efficiency in the former type of heteroduplex is attributed to an inhomology resulting from a tandem duplication in the merodiploid strains , and a postulated dna repair process stimulated by it while in the form of the donor duplex .
the inhomology probably includes ( a ) a microheterogeneity between the c site and the wild type locus , and ( b ) a more extensive incompatibility attributable to an extra segment of genome in a tandem duplication covering the c and d sites .
the first of these inhomologies produces a lowered efficiency of transfer from all configurations of the particular d allele associated with the mutant c marker , and therefore accounts for the characteristic transfer patterns even from the native merodiploid dna's .
a study of pneumococcal merodiploids at the molecular level .
the dna of a sulfonamide-resistant pneumococcal strain ( heterozygous for sulr-c ) and that of three highly resistant and persistently heterozygous cd transformants , derived by introducing sulr-c marker into a stable sulfonamide resistant strain ( sulr-d ) , were studied to analyze the genetic basis of their merodiploidy .
the physical properties of the native and denatured dna from the heterozygotes and the nonheterozygous strains were not distinguishable .
the denaturability and the renaturability of biological activity for the heterozygous markers were essentially identical to those of the normal markers .
the heterozygosity extends to the closely linked locus giving rise to four different configurations of cd and cd+ transformants , characterized by their frequencies of segregation and donor-marker activities .
the marker-activity ratios and the frequency of co-transfer of heterozygous markers were found to remain the same in each when the donor dna was native , denatured or reannealed without fractionation or reannealed after remixing of resolved strands .
possible models were weighed against these observations and these considerations led to the suggestion that tandem duplication of a gene region may be responsible for the heterozygosity and instability of this region .
a more detailed examination of this model will be presented in an accompanying paper .
genetic hybridization at the unlinked thy and str loci of streptococcus .
the sanguis and pneumoniae species of streptococcus were used as recipients in transformations from str+ to str-r and from thy- to thy+ .
the str-r mutations in the two species had been previously shown to be allelic .
homology of the thy- mutations in the two species was demonstrated in the similar phenotypic properties they conferred ( death in the absence of thymidine , lack of thymidylate synthetase ) .
the str and thy loci are unlinked in each species. -- - when the two species are transformed by both homospecific and heterospecific dna , the efficiency is always lower in the heterospecific cross .
the efficiency of heterospecific transformation is considerably lower at the thy than at the str locus .
dna was extracted from recipients that had integrated markers of heterospecific origin .
when such hybrid dna is tested on the original recipient species , the heterospecific markers are usually as efficient as homospecific markers .
when tested on the original donor species , however , the hybrid dna is usually more efficient than heterospecific dna .
this is true for both thy and str transformation .
-- -- forty independent thy+ hybrids were obtained in the cross of sanguis thy- recipients with pneumoniae thy+ dna .
these hybrids fall into a number of classes based upon the relative efficiency with which their extracted dna's are able to transfer the thy+ marker into pneumoniae thy- cells .
the most efficient of these dna's exhibits about 20 % of the efficiency of homospecific pneumoniae thy+ dna and three orders of magnitude greater efficiency than heterospecific sanguis thy+ dna .
thus , very little of the inefficiency of heterospecific transformation of the thy locus is ascribable to a classic restriction mechanism .
rather , the wild-type thy+ loci in the two species appear to differ at multiple sites , and independent heterospecific transfers result in differential extents of integration of these sites .
on this basis , the thy+ loci of the two species differ at a greater number of sites than do the respective str+ loci .
symposium : the city : a viable environment for the elderly ?
phase iii : planning and delivery of health services .
background .
symposium - the city : a viable environment for the elderly ?
phase iii : planning and delivery of health services .
on lok day health center ; a case study .
[ correlation between the status of the newborn infant and maternal dissociative anesthesia ] .
proceedings : the 24-hour control of intragastric ph by cimetidine , a new h2-receptor antagonist , in normal subjects and in patients with duodenal ulcer .
proceedings : bacterial breakdown of sulphasalazine ( salazopyrin ) .
further investigations with ph microelectrodes into the jejunal microclimate in rat and man .
fibrin plate method with reagents purified by affinity chromatography and its use for determination of fibrinolytic and other proteolytic activity in saliva , bile and plasma .
a modification of the fibrin plate method is presented .
plasminogen-free human fibrinogen and plasminogen purified by affinity chromatography have been used .
fibrin plates without and with a constant amount of plasminogen and with agarose as stabilizing medium were used for the estimation of plasmin and plasminogen activator activity .
activator activity could be demonstrated in sterile bile and saliva .
when plasmin activity was present , estimations of plasminogen activator were approximate .
the method is sensitive , small volumes of reagents and samples are needed .
the error of the method is comparatively low and the reproducibility is good .
[ thefts without motive of gain as a psychopathologic syndrome ( author's transl ) ] .
thefts without motive of pain have been known since the early 19th century .
but the problem has not been solved .
while they were formerly considered a mental disease , today they are not seen as something special .
but they still happen .
only a small percentage of common shop-lifting can be called a psycholopathologic syndrome .
many explanations and analyses have been published which are discussed in detail .
in a group described here comprehensively difficult marital situations full of conflict , marital sexual frustration , depression , physical and mental exhaustion and aggressive and suicidal tendencies are found .
theft appears to be closely connected with these .
but the pattern of motivation and causation is by no means stereo-typed .
in order to clear up such actions one will have to consider as exactly as possible the biographic connection and what happens during the act - quite apart from somatic conditions .
present assessment in reports is totally unsatisfactory .
to clear up the controversial questions is urgently necessary .
the structures of the phytochrome chromophore in both photoreversible forms .
spectral measurements of phytochrome are performed after unfolding of the peptide chain .
by comparison with bile pigments of known structure , structure 1a , containing a hydrogenated ring a , is deduced for the pr chromophore .
its spectral properties indicate that the chromophore of the physiologically active pfr form has lost the double bond of the bridge joining rings a and b .
a micro-method for quantitative determination of acylneuraminic acids from erythrocyte membranes .
a micro-method is presented which enables the fast and exact determination of acid-hydrolyzed acylneuraminic acids in erythrocyte membranes .
erythrocytes from 1 ml of human and rabbit blood containing acd buffer are , washed and hemolyzed on millipore filters of pore size 1.2 mu .
acylneuraminic acids are released from the erythrocyte membranes still on the filters under the optimal conditions of 0.1 n hcl at 80 degrees c for 50 min .
a prerequisite for the determination of the true amount of acylneuraminic acids using the periodic acid/thiobarbituric acid assay is the small-scale extraction of lipids from the hydrolysate and anion-exchange chromatography of acylneuraminic acids .
the values thus obtained must be corrected , as 20 % of acylneuraminic acids are destroyed during acid hydrolysis .
in samples of human blood from 10 healthy individuals , on an average 223 nmol acylneuraminic acids per ml of packed erythrocytes were found , and in the same amount of rabbit erythrocytes , 1e method for a screening of the acylneuraminic acid content of erythrocyte membranes in hemolytic diseases or of other cell membranes is discussed .
human liver acid phosphatases .
human liver contains three chromatographically distinct forms of non-specific acid phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.2 ) .
acid phosphatases i , ii and iii have molecular weights of greater than 200 000 , of 107 000 , and of 13 400 , respectively .
following partial purification , isoenzyme ii was obtained as a single activity band , as assessed by activity staining with p-nitrophenyl phosphate and alpha-naphthyl phosphate on polyacrylamide gels run at several ph values .
with 50mm p-nitrophenyl phosphate as a substrate , enzymes ii and iii exhibit plateaus of activity over the ph range 3 - 5 and 3.5 - 6 , respectively .
acid phosphatase ii is not significantly inhibited by 0.5 % formaldehyde .
the activity of human liver acid phosphatase ii and of human prostatic acid phosphatase towards several substrates is compared .
the liver enzyme , is marked contrast to the prostatic enzyme , does not hydrolyze o-phosphoryl choline .
isolation and characterization of pepsin-treated type iii collagen from calf skin .
calf skin collagen was solubilized by incubating acid-extracted calf skin with pepsin at ph 2.0 and 25 degrees c , conditions that did not cause degradation of the triple helical region of collagen .
type iii collagen was separated from type i collagen by differential salt precipitation at ph 7.5 .
the isolated type iii collagen contained mainly gamma and higher molecular weight components cross-linked by reducible and/or non-reducible bonds .
the isolated alpha1 ( iii ) chains had an amino acid composition characteristic of type iii collagen .
denatured but unreduced type iii collagen , chromatographed on carboxymethyl-cellulose , eluted in the alpha 2 region , while after reduction and alkylation the alpha1 ( iii ) chains eluted between the positions of alpha1 ( i ) and alpha2 .
the mid-point melting temperature temperature ( tm ) of type iii collagen ( 35.1 degrees c ) in a citrate buffer at ph 3.7 was somewhat lower than that of type i collagen ( 35.9 degrees c ) .
renaturation experiments at 25 degrees c showed that denatured type iii collagen molecules with intact intramolecular disulfide bridges ( gamma components ) reform the triple helical structure of collagen much faster than reduced and carboxymethylated alpha1 ( iii ) chains .
high-dosage and versatile drug therapy with treatment-resistant psychotic patients .
the author believes that many of the chronic patients in psychiatric institutions and mental health facilities could be helped if physicians were more willing to try different combinations and higher dosages of psychotropic drugs than are commonly used .
he presents case studies of two chronic patients who were helped by innovative use of drugs and discusses factors to be considered in implementing high-dosage and versatile drug therapy .
a new variant of glucosephosphate isomerase deficiency .
a new variant of glucose-6-phosphate isomerase deficiency is described .
the enzyme kinetics and properties were studied .
genetic and electrophoretic data pointed to a double heterozygous state in the patient .
these data are compared to the other variants described in the literature until now .
optimal conditions for isolating human placental alkaline phosphatase by immunosorption .
subunit composition of human blood group mn antigens .
the effect of acid treatment upon the susceptibility of rabbit igg to proteolytic cleavage with various enzymes .
beta-adrenergic receptors in vas deferens of guineapigs .
[ infusion treatment in shock ] .
nowadays , above all dextran , gelatin and starch solutions are available for the infusion theraphy of the various forms of shock .
the application of these volume substitutes must be strictly controlled to avoid in particular cardial and pulmonal commplications .
blood transfusion combined with a volume substitute should only be applied in cases of heavy loss of blood .
the treatment of metabolic acidose which usually occurs simultaneously is carried out with an alkaline solution .
suppressor t cells and host resistance to tye 111 pneumococcus after treatment with antilymphocyte serum .
the antibody response to type iii pneumococcal polysaccharide ( ss-ii ) was significantly increased in mice treated with antilymphocyte serum ( als ) .
balg/c mice given 0.25 ml of als on days -1 , 0 , and 1 relative to the days of immunization with 0.5 mug of sss-ii had a 20-fold increment ( 11,383 increased to 199,917 ) in the number of splenic plaque-forming cells enumerated on day 5 compared with untreated , immunized controls .
this effect has been attributed to the elimination of subpopulation of thymus-derived lymphocytes ( t cells ) that has suppressor function .
the present series of experiments relate the augmented antibody response to sss-ii in mice treated with als to increased host resistance after infection with streptococcus pneumoniae , type iii ( pn-ii ) .
the 50 % lethal dose of pn-iii in niminnunized mice was 102 and the 100 % lethal dose was 103 organisms .
mice immunized with 0.5 mug of sss-iii and challenged 5 days later with pn-iii were completely protected against a dose of up to 108 organisms .
mice treated with 0.25 ml of als on days -1 , 0 , and 1 , immunized with sss-iii on day 0 , and challenged with 2.5 x 10 ( 9 ) pn-iii on day 5 had a mean survival time of greater than 100 h compared with 16 h for immunized non-serum-treated controls .
animals given a single injection of als before immunization showed no increase in resistance , whereas mice treated after immunization had significant prolongation of survival times .
untreated , immunized mice challenged with 5 x 10 ( 9 ) , 1 x 5 x 10 ( 8 ) pn-ii survived 14 to 19 h , whereas als-treated animals had mean survival times of 48 , 174 , and 222 h , respectively .
these findings suggest that immunoregulatory t cells may have a biologically significant effect in a narrow zone in which the normal host immune response is insufficient but still potentially capable of providing some additional degree of protection if suppressor cells are elimated .
[ past and present aspects of diarrheal disease in childhood. clinical study and treatment ( author's transl ) ] .
the etiologic and pathophysiologic findings described in the first part of this paper have important consequences : the recognition of the specific etiology of diarrhea requires new laboratory methods : most of these , however , are technically easy to perform and do not require a large laboratory .
a long-ranging consequence of this changed concept is a well-founded modification of therapy .
the most important discovery was , that in a well balanced glucose electrolyte solution sodium and glucose enhance their absorption mutually and increase the absorption of water by solvent drag .
since in most acute diarrheas the mechanisms of absorption of glucose and electrolytes are retained this mechanism can be utilized for fast oral rehydration and reinstitution of normal intestinal homeostasis .
prompt institution of a diet consisting of the previously mentioned glucose-electrolyte solution usually prevents severe dehydration and the need for stationary treatment .
the elimination of lactose and long chain fatty acids from the diet prevents continuation of the pathologic osmotic and chemical conditions in the intestine .
antibiotics are not indicated in acute diarrhea with the exception of diarrhea caused by enteroinvasive e .
coli or shigella , in the case of salmonella-gastroenteritis even contraindicated .
further research concentrates on the development of drugs for neutralisation of e .
coli enterotoxin and the prevention of diarrheas by development of effective vaccines .
the role of biotransformation in the action of drugs affecting the sympathetic nervous system .
plasma binding and disposition of local anesthetics .
population growth-a menace to what ?
originally , many of the initiators of the world population conference , which took place in bucharest in 1974 , had hoped that the conference would imply a final breakthrough for the view that family planning measures should be given top priority in all less-developed countries .
in fact , however , the plan of action passed by the conference contains very little relating to population and family planning .
instead , the document is dominated by wordy phrases about the necessity of attaining social and economic development in those countries .
will the insight that family planning programs work efficiently only if they are an integral part of programs for the social and economic development of a country lead to such programs being realized ?
there is every reason to doubt that the plan of action will have any such effect .
the reasons for the underdevelopment of third world countries can not be removed through such united nations resolutions .
in the people's republic of china , family planning is widely accepted , especially in the towns , and now also among the rural population .
limiting the number of children is considered part of china's development effort .
china is a less-developed country that is in the process of rapid social and economic development .
the issue at stake in other third world countries is how to achieve a similar development .
as soon as this goal is achieved , family planning efforts are meaningful and have a chance of success .
the experience of china demonstrates that even there it took time before the efforts succeeded .
there are many third world countries that could , without much difficulty , support a population considerably larger than the present one .
but there are no doubt also a number of countries where the population is already so large that a continued population increase would be harmful .
the need to achieve rapid development becomes increasingly urgent , not in the least to make it possible to attain a reduced population growth .
the sad truth is that so little development takes place in those countries .
without social and economic development , the present rapid population increase will continue in those countries where there is already an overly dense population .
training of the barefoot doctor in the people's republic of china : from prevention to curative service .
among the changes that have been brought about in health delivery in the people's republic of china , the introduction of the barefoot doctor has been one of the most important and effective ways that the government has devised to radically alter the concept of health care .
through close identification with the community in terms of recruitment , training , and practice , the barefoot doctor is a concrete manifestation of the ideological principles of following the mass line and being self-reliant .
the paper focuses on the building of rural health services , with special reference to the training of the barefoot doctor as the first-level contact person in primary care in the communes .
it describes the training programs in a school of public health and the career mobility possible to the barefoot doctor in joining the ranks of medical practitioners .
effect of the beta-receptor blocking agent visken on the action of coumarin .
in a double-blind study , the influence of visken on the effect of anticoagulant therapy with marcoumar was examined .
in comparison to a placebo group , neither any influence on the quick time , nor any increased tendency to haemorrhage bleeding could be detected .
contact dermatitis from proprietary preparations in malaysia .
aggression and central neurotransmitters .
neurochemical and neuropharmacological aspects of depression .
investigations of the excretion of gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase into the urine .
the excretion of the enzyme gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase and its isoenzymes into the urine was investigated in patients with renal diseases and compared with the excretion of the enzymes leucine-aminopeptidase and lactate-dehydrogenase .
in animal experiments an increased excretion of these enzymes was found after autotransplantation .
increased excretion of gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase was also found in patients with glomerulonephritis and in the polyuric phase of acute tubular necrosis , but not in cases of pyelonephritis and in the oliguric phase of acute tubular necrosis .
the alterations of the isoenzyme pattern during diseases with increased enzyme excretion are in accordance with the hypothesis that the enzymes are liberated from the kidney tissue into the urine , and only a minority stems from the blood .
investigation of the excretion of gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase and its isoenzymes into the urine seems to be of both scientific and clinical interest .
interaction of adrenergic antagonists with prostaglandin e2 and tetrahydrocannabinol in the eye .
both alpha- and beta-adrenergic antagonists have been utilized in an atempt to discern the site of action of prostaglandin ( pg ) and tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) in the eye .
both alpha- and beta-adrenergic antagonists ( alpha-antagonists , phentolamine and phenoxybenzamine ; beta-antagonists , propranolol and sotalol ) cuased a dose-dependent reduction in intraocular pressure and blood pressure and increased total outflow facility .
the results are consistent with the concept that both alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors are present in the anterior uvea and that vasomotor tone is essential to the maintenance of normal intraocular pressure .
no antagonist reduced the pg-induced elevation of intraocular pressure unless the blood pressure was severely lowered .
all antagonists inhibit the normal pg-induced increase in total outflow facility , indicating that these agents protect the blood-aqueous barrier from breakdown without altering the vasodilatory response to pg .
all antagonists reduced the fall in intraocular pressure produced by thc by approximately 50 per cent , except for sotalol which completely abolished the intraocular pressure fall .
only the alpha-adrenergic antagonists prevented the thc-induced increase in total outflow facility .
the results indicate that true outflow facility may well be regulated exclusively by alpha-receptors .
the data are consistent with the effect of thc being primarily a vasodilation of the efferent blood vessels of the anterior uvea .
the partial inhibition by alpha-adrenergic antagonists may also suggest a lesser role of thc on the afferent vessels .
induction of corneal graft rejection by passive cell transfer .
an experimental model is presented demonstrating that penetrating corneal grafts in the rabbit may be rejected by passive transfer into the anterior chamber of specifically sensitized lymphoid cells .
destruction of histo-incompatible corneal endothelium is always marked by the formation of focal pock-like areas of damage in this system , rather than by the typical moving line of rejecting endothelium usually seen in spontaneous graft rejection .
where the transferred lymphoid cells are compatible with the tissues of the graft recipient , the picture is one of a severely affected graft on a field of uninvolved recipient corneal endothelium .
where the lymphoid cells are compatible with the graft and not with the tissues of the recipient , one sees a clear corneal graft surviving on a field of endothelial destruction on the recipient bed .
the specificity of these reactions is illustrated in terms of the histocompatibility relationships between corneal donor , graft recipient , and the donor of the sensitized lymphoid cells .
acute tubular necrosis .
an experimental model detailing the biochemical events accompanying renal injury and recovery .
male charles river mice , divided into control or experimental groups , received on day 0 either sterile 0.3 mnahco3 in 0.9 per cent saline ( ph7.4 ) intraperitoneal injection or pteroylglutamic acid ( 200 mug per body weight ) , similarly buffered to ph7.6 , and were sacrificed on days 0 , 1/4 , 1/2 , 1,2,3,4,7 , and 14 .
the experimental kidneys demonstrated intratubular deposits of pteroylglutamic acid with edema between days 1 and 4 with cortical scarring by day 14 .
the experimental kidneys reached maximal increases in weight ( +90 per cent ) on day 2 , rna ( +61 per cent , protein ( +67 per cent ) on day 3 , and dna ( +25 per cent ) on day 4 before falling to below control levels on day 14 .
the control kidneys demonstrated the gradual incremental increases of normal renal growth throughout this period .
no change in renal size , protein , rna , or dna could be detected in those animals who failed to demonstrate renal tubular damage .
it is postulated that the response of the kidney to folic acid administration is a reparative response and not a response directed toward accelerated renal growth .
proceedings : proton magnetic relaxation of some high spin hemoproteins in aqueous solutions .
radiocesium in native residents of anaktuvuk pass , alaska , 1970-1974 .
the study of physician extenders in primary care .
use of cardioactive drugs in acute myocardial infarction .
[ 10th session of the oesterreichische gesellschaft fur unfallchirurgie , oct. 11-12 , 1974 salzburg. opening address ] .
purification and properties of pepstatin hydrolase from bacillus sphaericus .
nucleosides and nucleotides of the cold acid-soluble portion of the blood of steers .
microbial spoilage of fresh refrigerated beef liver .
letter : sensitivity testing of anaerobes on solid media .
properties of the 3-o-methyl-d-glucose transport system in acholeplasma laidlawii .
transport of 3-o-methyl-d-glucose ( 3-o-mg ) by acholeplasma laidlawii cells was studied .
the 3-o-mg transport system appeared to be constitutive in cells grown on 3-o-mg and glucose ; the transport process depended on the concentration of substrate used and exhibited typical saturation kinetics , with an apparent km of 4.6 mum .
3-o-mg was transported as a free carbohydrate and was not metabolized further in the cell .
dependence on ph and temperature and the results of efflux and `` counterflow '' experiments demonstrated the carrier nature of the transport system .
6-deoxyglucose and glucose competitively inhibited 3-o-mg transport , whereas maltose inhibited in non-competitively .
p-chloromercuribenzoate , p-chloromercuribenzene sulfonate , n-ethylmaleimide , and iodoacetate inhibited transport of 3-o-mg .
cells were able to accumulate 3-o-mg against a concentration gradient .
some electron transfer inhibitors ( rotenone and amytal ) , arsenate , dicyclohexylcarbodiimide , and proton conductors such as 2,4-dinitrophenol , carbonylcyanide , m-chlorophenylhydrazone , pentachlorophenol , and tetrachlorotrifluoromethylbenzimidazole inhibited this process .
starvation survival of salmonella enteritidis .
washed cells of salmonella enteritidis harvested from a defined medium during logarithmic growth were subjected to starvation in ph 7 phosphate buffer at 37 c .
viability was measured by slide cultures and plate counts .
the survival of cell suspensions equivalent to 1 to 10 mg ( dry wt ) /ml was influenced by cryptic growth .
the rate of cryptic growth , assessed by plate counts , increased with cell density and could not be alleviated by starvation with dialysis .
dialysis of the starving culture did retard the onset of cryptic growth but did not eliminate it , indicating that the major substrates for regrowth were relatively large cellular components .
in phosphate buffer , 6.7 homologous heat-killed cells allowed for the doubling of one s. enteritidis cell .
cryptic growth was not observed when cells were starved on the surface of membrane filters or in suspensions equivalent to 20 mug ( dry wt ) /ml ( 105 cells/ml ) .
similar half-life survival times were calculated for both these populations , but the shape of their survival curves differed significantly .
these differences were attributed to stress factors encountered during cell preparation and during starvation .
the half-life survival time of s. enteritidis starved at 20 mug ( dry wt ) /ml was 140 h in phosphate buffer , 82 h in 3,6-endomethylene-1,2,3 , -6-tetrahydrophthalic acid buffer , and 77 h in tris ( hydroxymethyl ) aminomethane buffer .
mismatch correction in pneumococcal transformation : donor length and hex-dependent marker efficiency .
a hypothesis that preferential rejection of donor markers by the hex system of pneumococcus is due to lethal double-strand breaks has been examined in terms of its implications for the extent of the excision required .
experiments reported here were directed at asking whether hex-dependent marker efficiency depends on the length of the donor deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) .
in the absence of intracellular competition for hex function , there was no detectable effect of dna size on hex-dependent marker efficiency as donor dna was sheared from greater than 1 x 107 daltons to 3.6 x 105 daltons .
the latter dna was purified by two successive velocity fractionations to ensure that the activity seen was representative of dna of that size .
quantitative examination of the system shows that , for the lethal event hypothesis to be true , the excision step has to remove an average of 7,000 to 10,000 nucleotides .
this figure is so much greater than that seen in other excision processes that alternate hypotheses should be considered .
the presently known properties of the hex system can be accounted for by a model invoking the migratory features of type i restriction enzymes .
microcalorimetric study of the anaerobic growth of escherichia coli : growth thermograms in a synthetic medium .
a microcalorimetric technique was used for studying the growth of escherichia coli during anaerobiosis .
the growth thermograms obtained are complex and the shape of curves is dependent on the hydrogen lyase activity of the cells .
fermentation balances are given for different culture conditions , and simple growth thermograms are obtained when the hydrogen lyase activity is inhibitied .
physiological study of ergot : induction of alkaloid synthesis by tryptophan at the enzymatic level .
the enhancement of ergot alkaloid production by tryptophan and its analogues in both normal and high-phosphate cultures is more directly related to increased dimethylallyltryptophan ( dmat ) synthetase activity rather than to a lack of regulation of the tryptophan biosynthetic enzymes .
thiotryptophan [ beta- ( 1-benzo-thien-3-yl ) -alanine ] is rather ineffective in the end product regulation of tryptophan biosynthesis , whereas tryptophan and 5-methyltryptophan are potent effectors .
the presence of increased levels of dmat synthetase in ergot cultures supplemented with tryptophan or thiotryptophan , and to a lesser extent with 5-methyltryptophan , suggests that the induction effect involves de novo synthesis of the enzyme .
thiotryptophan and tryptophan but not 5-methyltryptophan can overcome the block of alkaloid synthesis by inorganic phosphate .
the results with thiotryptophan indicate that the phosphate effect can not be explained merely on the basis of a block of tryptophan synthesis .
microcalorimetric study of the anaerobic growth of escherichia coli : measurements of the affinity of whole cells for various energy substrates .
microcalorimetry has been used to determine the affinity of whole cells of escherichia coli for glucose , galactose , fructose , and lactose .
anaerobic growth thermograms were analyzed , and the km and vmax values for these energy substrates were measured at ph 7.8 .
results obtained with this technique using various organisms growing anaerobically on different sugars are compared .
this comparison shows that in practically all cases the cellular rate of catabolic activity is a hyperbolic function of the energy substrate concentrations at low sugar concentrations .
in some cases this technique also allows determination of kinetics at high sugar concentrations .
purification and properties of polyol dehydrogenase from cephalosporium chrysogenus .
a polyol dehydrogenase of broad specificity was purified 178-fold from extracts of the filamentous fungus cephalosporium chrysogenum .
the enzyme was found to act as an oxido-reductase in two substrate-coenzyme systems : d-sorbitol ( or xylitol ) -nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide ( nad ) and d-mannitol-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate ( nadp ) .
the dehydrogenase was composed of five isozymes , which , as a mixture , exhibited these properties : km to d-sorbitol and d-mannitol , 7.15 to 10 ( -2 ) m ; ph optimum , 9 to 10 ; molecular weight , 300,000 subunit weight , 29,000 ; pi , 5.8 to 7.5 .
the nadp-linked activity was labile to treatment with heat or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid .
mixed substrate assays support the hypothesis that both nad- , and nadp-linked activities are associated with isozymes of a single dehydrogenase .
effect of alkali on the structure of cell envelopes of chlamydia psittaci elementary bodies .
suspensions of isolated cell envelopes of infectious elementary bodies ( eb ) of chlamydia psittaci at alkaline ph showed a rapid , extensive decrease in absorbance , accompanied by the release of a cell envelope component in a sedimentable form .
this phenomenon was observed both at 0 c and with envelopes which had been previously heated to 100 c .
monovalent and divalent cations effectively inhibited the turbidity loss , whereas ethylenediaminetetraacetate ( edta ) caused an accelerated decrease in turbidity .
the turbidity loss observed after incubation of the envelopes at alkaline ph could be reversed to the level of the initial value by dialysis against distilled water containing mg2+ .
thin-section electron photomicrographs of purified eb exposed to alkaline buffer with edta revealed the loss of the internal contents of cells , but these cells still maintained their round shapes .
the cell surface of treated eb appeared pitted in negatively stained preparations , whereas intact eb had a smooth surface .
electron microscopic studies on negatively stained preparations of the clear supernatant obtained after the treatment of the envelope with alkaline buffer containing edta demonstrated the presence of spherical particles , approximately 6 to 7 nm in diameter , and rodlike particles , which appeared to be made up of two or more spherical particles .
protein-carbohydrate-lipid complex isolated from the cell envelopes of chlamydia psittaci in alkaline buffer and ethylenediaminetetraacetate .
exposure of isolated cell envelopes from purified infectious elementary ( eb ) of chlamydia psittaci to sodium carbonate-bicarbonate buffer at ph 10 plus ethylenediaminetetraacetate ( edta ) results in partial solubilization of the total protein .
the released materials represent 20 % of the dry weight , 16 % of the total protein , 40 % of the total carbohydrate , and 9 % of the total lipid of the cell envelopes .
sucrose density gradient centrifugation , and sephadex g-200 , sepharose 4b , or diethylaminoethyl-cellulose column chromatography , reveal a protein-carbohydrate-lipid complex of several hundred thousand molecular weight that contains 50 % protein .
sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the isolated eb cell envelopes reveals two major protein bands , a and b , with estimated molecular masses of approximately 85,000 and 53,000 , respectively , both of which also stain for the presence of carbohydrate and lipid .
gel electrophoresis of the protein-carbohydrate-lipid complex reveals two protein bands , c and d , with estimated molecular weights of approximately 17,000 and 13,000 , respectively , which contain lipid and a small amount of carbohydrate ; bands a and b are not present in the complex .
gel electrophoresis of the cell envelope residues after extraction of the complex with alkali and edta shows a single main band , corresponding to the position of band b , which contains protein , carbohydrate , and lipid ; band a is completely missing .
b and a is believed to be a component of the complex , which is split into two subunits on alkali solubilization .
purification and properties of beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase from escherichia coli .
beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase ( ec 3.2.1.30 ) has been purified from escherichia coli k-12 to near homogeneity based on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in both 0.5 % sodium dodecyl sulfate and in 6 m urea at ph 8.5 .
the purified enzyme shows a ph optimum of 7.7 and the km for p-nitrophenyl-beta-d-2-acetamido-2-deoxyglucopyranoside is 0.43 mm .
the molecular weight of this enzyme , determined by both sephadex gel filtration and by sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis , is equivalent to 36,000 .
it is shown to be a soluble cytoplasmic enzyme .
studies on the substrate specificites of the purified enzyme indicate that this enzyme is an exo-beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase .
acid protease activity during germination of microcysts of the cellular slime mold polysphondylium pallidum .
extracts of dormant microcysts of polysphondylium pallidum demonstrate ph optima for the hydrolysis of casein at 3.5 and 6.0 .
during germination the intracellular ph 6.0 caseinolytic specific activity does not change significantly .
the ph 6.0 protease is also active on azo-albumin , revealing the same developmental pattern with this substrate .
both acid protease activities are excreted during the germination process .
addition of purified nonspecific protease to cultures speeds up germination , suggesting that the excreted protease may play a role in removal of the microcyst wall .
when cycloheximide is added to cultures , complete germination ( emergence ) is stopped whereas the ph 6.0 protease activity still accumulates to between 50 and 60 % of the maximum control activity .
although this suggests that post-translational controls might mediate the accumulation of a portion of the ph 6.0 protease increase , mixing and dilution experiments with cell extracts do not reveal the differential presence of soluble activators or inhibitors of this activity at different developmental stages .
the presence of tightly bound enzyme-inhibitor complexes for protease b in dormant microcysts has not been ruled out and is currently under study .
altered nutritional requirements associated with mutations affecting the structures of ribonucleic acid polymerase in lactobacillus casei .
rifampin-resistant mutants were isolated from lactobacillus casei s1 and examined for possible simultaneous alteration in nutritional properties .
among the 36 mutants obtained either spontaneously or after mutagenesis with 2-aminopurine , 22 were found to be altered with respect to the specific growth requirements .
the majority ( 20 of 22 ) of the latter mutants were shown to require l-glutamine in addition to the nutrients required by the parental strain for maximal growth , whereas the remaining mutants had apparently lost the requirement for l-aspartate .
further studies with one of the glutamine-requiring mutants revealed that the rifampin resistance of this strain is due to the resistance of ribonucleic acid polymerase itself and that a single mutation is responsible for both rifampin resistance and the glutamine requirement .
these results strongly indicate that a structural alteration of the ribonucleic acid polymerase caused by the rifampin resistance mutation somehow affected glutamine metabolism , possibly through change in selective transcription of the genes involved .
preparations and properties of ribonucleic acid polymerase from acinetobacter calcoaceticus .
deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) -dependent ribonucleic acid ( rna ) polymerase ( ec 2.7.7.6 ) from acinetobacter calcoaceticus was purified to apparent homogeneity and its properties were compared with those of the escherichia coli b enzyme .
the molecular weights of the two native active enzymes as well as their alpha and beta subunits appeared to be similar .
no subunit corresponding to that of sigma from e. coli was found , and furthermore no separation between the beta subunits could be detected by gel electrophoresis .
a number of different dnas were transcribed by the enzyme from a. calcoaceticus .
maximal rna synthesis occurred at ph 8.7 , 10 mm mg2+ , or 0.3 mm mn2+ and at a total ionic strength of 0.1 .
higher ionic strengths led to increasing inhibition of transcription and at mu = 0.4 complete inhibition was observed .
the mechanism of inhibition of salt was not related to the initiation event as observed with t4 core rna polymerase ( r.kleppe , 1975 ) .
in an attempt to understand the mechanism of inhibition by salt , the effect of ionic strength on the sedimentation properties of the enzyme was investigated .
at low ionic strength , enzyme species with sedimentation coefficients , s20 , w , of 5.8s , 12.4s , and 19.3s were present .
in buffers with higher ionic strengths the relative amounts of the 12.4s species decreased .
it is suggested , therefore , that the inhibition of activity at higher salt concentrations is caused by a decrease in concentration of the active enzyme species .
urea-hydrolyzing activity of a t-strain mycoplasma : ureaplasma urealyticum .
the urea-hydrolyzing activity of a t-strain mycoplasma was studied in experiments using whole cells and cell-free enzyme preparations by measuring the release of 14co2 from [ 14c ] urea .
under the conditions used , the urea concentration optimum is approximately 5.6 x 10 ( -3 ) m urea .
the activity is soluble and not membrane bound .
it is stable at -70 c for several weeks but is more labile at higher temperatures .
the ph optimum is between 5.0 and 6.0 .
the effect of several inhibitors on the activity was tested and revealed similarities , as well as differences , between t-strain mycoplasma urease activity and the urease activity of other organisms and plants .
arginine decarboxylase from a pseudomonas species .
an arginine decarboxylase has been isolated from a pseudomonas species .
the enzyme is constitutive and did not appear to be repressed by a variety of carbon sources .
after an approximately 40-fold purification , the enzyme appeared more similar in its properties to the escherichia coli biosynthetic arginine decarboxylase than to the e. coli inducible ( biodegradative ) enzyme .
the pseudomonas arginine decarboxylase exhibited a ph optimum of 8.1 and an absolute requirement of mg2+ and pyridoxal phosphate , and was inhibited significantly at lower mg2+ concentrations by the polyamines putrescine , spermidine , and cadaverine .
the km for l-arginine was about 0.25 mm at ph 8.1 and 7.2 .
the enzyme was completely inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate .
the inhibition was prevented by dithiothreitol , a feature that suggests the involvement of an -sh group .
of a variety of labeled amino acids tested , only l-arginine , but not d-arginine was decarboxylated .
d-arginine was a potent inhibitor of arginine decarboxylase with a ki of 3.2 mum .
derepression of certain aromatic amino acid biosynthetic enzymes of escherichia coli k-12 by growth in fe3+-deficient medium .
3-deoxy-arabino-heptulosonic acid 7-phosphate synthase , prephenate dehydratase , tryptophan synthase , and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine synthase enzyme activities are derepressed in wild-type escherichia coli k-12 cells grown on fe3+-deficient medium .
this derepression is reversed when feso4 is added to the growth medium .
addition of shikimic acid to the fe3+-deficient growth medium caused repression of the first three enzyme activities but not of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine synthase activity .
addition of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to the fe3+-deficient growth medium has no effect on any of the above-mentioned enzyme activities .
the fe3+ deficiency-mediated derepression of 3-deoxyarabino-heptulosonic acid 7-phosphate synthase activity is due to an elevation of the tyrosine-sensitive isoenzyme ; the phenylalanine-sensitive isoenzyme is not derepressed under these conditions .
control of differentiation in streptomycetes : involvement of extrachromosomal deoxyribonucleic acid and glucose repression in aerial mycelia development .
when streptomyces alboniger spores were grown in hickey-tresner broth containing 5 mum ethidium bromide , a high frequency of permanently cured aerial mycelia-negative ( am- ) colonies was recovered .
the appearance an am- colonies was time dependent : a very low frequency ( 0.3 % ) at zero time , a maximum ( 9 to 21 % ) after 2 to 5 days of growth , and a decline again to low frequencies later in the growth cycle .
on agar , cured am- colonies of s. alboniger still produced puromycin .
the development of aerial mycelia in s. alboniger , s. scabies , and s. coelicolor was also sensitive to glucose repression .
colonies grown on hickey-tresner agar containing 2 % glucose remained phenotypically am- throughout the observation period .
adenine ( 2.5 mm or greater ) , and to a lesser extent adenosine and guanosine , specifically reversed the repression .
the accumulation of undissociated organic acids appears to be involved in glucose repression of aerial mycelia formation .
however , this does not appear to be the case with puromycin production in s. alboniger ; glucose repression was observed over the ph range 5.0 to 7.5 .
studies on cytochrome oxidase .
partial resolution of enzymes containing seven or six subunits , from yeast and beef heart , respectively .
highly active , essentially homogeneous , preparations of ferrocytochrome c oxidase ( ec 1.9.3.1 ) have been obtained from both yeast and beef heart by extraction with cholate , fractionation with ammonium sulfate , and replacement of cholate by tween 20 .
the molecular weights of the resultant proteins equal 260 +/- 23 x 10 ( 3 ) and 205 +/- 10 ( 3 ) ; they contain seven and six different polypeptide subunits , respectively , all in equimolar amounts , with apparent molecular weights of 42.4 , 34.1 , 24.7 , 14.6 , 14.6 , 12.3 , 10.6 x 10 ( 3 ) , and 47.5 , 20.4 , 14.5 , 14.5 , 13.0 , 11.0 x 10 ( 3 ) , respectively .
by means of apolar chromatography on l-leucine coupled to agarose these enzymes can be stripped of their largest subunit ( s ) resulting in preparations with molecular weights of 170 +/- 17 x 10 ( 3 ) and 124 +/- 20 x 10 ( 3 ) , and containing only five polypeptides , with the largest remaining one ( molecular weight congruent to 20 x 10 ( 3 ) ) present in less than stoichiometric amounts .
this interconversion and subunit removal has been monitored by exclusion chromatography , four systems of acrylamide gel electrophoresis -- some with the protein labeled with 125i under denaturing conditions -- isoelectric focusing , and hydrodynamic methods .
it has virtually no effect on heme a and copper content and on the catalytic parameters of the enzymes .
we conclude that subunits i and ii in enzymes from fungal , and subunit i in those from animal , sources are dispensable for the catalysis of the oxidation of ferrocytochrome c by , and are probably not essential for the attatchment of prosthetic groups to , these proteins .
isolation and characterization of crystalline methylglyoxal synthetase from proteus vulgaris .
methylglyoxal synthetase , which catalyzes the conversion of dihydroxyacetone phosphate to methylglyoxal and inorganic phosphate , has been isolated and crystalized in good yields from proteus vulgaris .
the enzyme was shown to be homogeneous by a variety of criteria and was found to be a dimer ( mr = 135,000 ; s20 , w = 7.2 s ) composed of two apparently identical catalytic and physical properties and their interconvertible nature suggest that they do not represent true isozymes .
the enzyme is specific for dihydroxyacetone phosphate and does not form methylglyoxal from glyceraldehyde 3-phophate , glyceraldehyde , or dihydroxyacetone .
nonphosphorylated analogs are neither substrates nor competive inhibitors , but a variety of phosphorylated analogs are competitive with respect to dihydroxyacetone phosphate .
the enzyme is inhibited by inorganic orthophosphate in a complex manner which is overcome by dihydroxyacetone phosphate in a signoidal manner
beef kidney 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase .
purification , characterization , and analysis of the assay .
beef kidney 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase has been purified to homogeneity .
it is a single subunit protein of mr = 34,000 +/- 2,000 with a frictional coefficient ( f/f0 ) of about 1.1 .
the enzyme readily aggregates to form , apparently inactive , higher molecular weight oligomers .
the very rapid loss of enzyme activity during the assay was analyzed extensively .
it was found to be due to inactivation of the enzyme by the substrate , 3-hydroxyanthranilate , and unrelated to enzyme turnover or oxidation of bound iron .
the loss of activity was shown to be a first order decay process , and methods are given for obtaining accurate initial reaction rates under all conditions .
evidence was presented that the enzyme assumes a catalytically inactive conformation at ph 3.4 , which only relatively slowly rearranges to an active form at ph 6.5 ; the rearrangement can be blocked by the presence of substrate .
we have found that fe2+ , which is required for enzymatic activity , can equilibrate freely , albeit slowly , with the enzyme during the course of the enzyme reaction even in the presence of saturating 3-hydroxanthranilate .
under assay conditons , the fe2+ has an apparent dissociation constant of 0.04 mm .
the kinetic properties of the enzyme were found to be dramatically different in beta , beta-dimethylglutarate buffer and collidine buffer ; both the rate of loss of activity during the assay and the substrate km and vmax were affected .
effects of colipase and taurodeoxycholate on the catalytic and physical properties of pancreatic lipase b at an oil water interface .
a monolayer reaction system employing tripropionin and siliconized glass beads was used to study the effects of taurodeoxycholate and colipase on the catalytic activity , interfacial stability , and interfacial affinity of porcine pancreatic lipase b ( ec 3.1.1.3 ) the stability and catalytic activity of lipase at the bead-water interface are governed by the same two ionizable groups with pka values ( in the absence of cofactors ) of 5.6 and 9.3 .
colipase alone or with bile salt caused only a slight perturbation of these values .
at low concentrations , 0 to 0.3mm , taurodeoxycholate increases the stability of lipase by 5-fold .
at higher concentrations , 0.3 to 0.8 mm , but still below its critical micelle concentration , taurodeoxycholate prevents the adsorption of lipase to the bead-water interface .
this appears to be the major mechanism by which this bile salt inhibits lipolysis .
colipase exerts small positive effects on lipase stability and catalytic activity .
more importantly , colipase enables the adsorption of lipase in the presence of bile salt , thereby reversing the inhibition .
rickettsial permeability .
an adp-atp transport system .
the obligate intracellular parasitic bacterium , rickettsia prowazeki , has a carrier-mediated transport system for adp and atp .
the transport of nucleotides was measured by membrane filtration assays ; the assay was shown not to harm the relatively labile rickettsiae .
the nucleotide transport system was shown to reside in the rickettsiae , not in the contaminating yolk sac mitochondria of the preparation .
the influx of nucleotide had an activation energy of 12 to 13 kcal above 22 deg-rees ( an apparent transition temperature ) , and 30 kcal below this value .
the uptake of nucleotide was independent of the mg2+ concentration , but was markedly stimulated by the phosphate concentration .
the ph optimum of the influx of nucleotide was ph 7 .
the specificity of the transport system was remarkable in that it required a specific moiety in each portion of the nucleotide , i.e. an adenine base , a ribose sugar , and two or three , but not one , phosphates .
of the wide variety of compounds tested , the system could transport only adp , atp , and ( beta , gamma-methylene ) adenosine 5'-triphosphate .
the influx of nucleotide was a saturable process ; half-maximum velocity was achieved at a nucleotide concentration of about 75 mum .
adp and atp were competitive inhibitors of each other's transport .
although at least 95 % of the labeled intracellular nucleotide was exchangeable , efflux of labeled nucleotide was observed only in the presence of unlabeled nucleotide in the medium .
half-maximum efflux was achieved at a concentration of about 75 mum .
a large intracellular to extracellular concentration gradient of labeled nucleotide was maintained in the presence of metabolic inhibitors and uncouplers , which completely abolished rickettsial hemolysis .
while having no effect on the steady state , kcn and dnp accelerated both influx and efflux .
measurements of the endogenous pool of adenine nucleotides in isolated rickettsiae show that is was large ( 5 mm ) , and that these unlabeled nucleotides exchanged , on approximately a 1/1 basis , with exogenously added nucleotide .
these studies support the proposal that rickettsiae are not `` leaky '' to adenine nucleotides or to small molecules in general , and that they have a carrier-mediated transport system which allows an exchange of host and parasite adp and atp .
monomeric purine nucleoside phosphorylase from rabbit liver .
purification and characterization .
rabbit liver purine nucleoside phosphorylase ( purine nucleoside : orthophosphate ribosyltransferase ec 2.4.2.1. ) was purified to homogeneity by column chromatography and ammonium sulfate fractionation .
homogeneity was established by disc gel electrophoresis in presence and absence of sodium dodecyl sulfate , and isoelectric focusing .
molecular weights of 46,000 and 39,000 were determined , respectively , by gel filtration and by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis .
product inhibition was observed with guanine and hypoxanthine as strong competitive inhibitors for the enzymatic phosphorolysis of guanosine .
respective kis calculated were 1.25 x 10 ( -5 ) m for guanine and 2.5 x 10 ( -5 ) m for hypoxanthine .
ribose 1-phosphate , another product of the reaction , gave noncompetitive inhibition with guanosine as variable substrate , and an inhibition constant of 3.61 x 10 ( -4 ) m was calculated .
the protection of essential -- sh groups on the enzyme , by 2-mercaptoethanol or dithiothreitol , was necessary for the maintenance of enzyme activity .
noncompetitive inhibition was observed for p-chloromercuribenzoate with an inhibition constant of 5.68 x 10 ( -6 ) m .
complete reversal of this inhibition by an excess of 2-mercaptoethanol or dithiothreitol was demonstrated .
in the presence of methylene blue , the enzyme showed a high sensitivity to photooxidation and a dependence of photoinactivation on ph , strongly implicating histidine as the susceptible group at the active site of the enzyme .
the pka values determined for ionizable groups of the active site of the enzyme were near ph 5.5 and ph 8.5 the chemical and kinetic evidences suggest that histidine and cysteine may be essential for catalysis .
inorganic orthophosphate ( km 1.54 x 10 ( -2 ) m ) was an obligatory anion requirement , and arsenate substituted for phosphate with comparable results .
guanosine ( km 5.00 x 10 ( -5 ) m ) , deoxyguanosine ( km 1.00 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) and inosine ( km 1.33 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) , were substrates for enzymatic phosphorolysis .
xanthosine was an extremely poor substrate , and adenosine was not phosphorylyzed at 20-fold excess of the homogeneous enzyme .
guanine ( km 1.82 x 10 ( -5 ) m ) , ribose 1-phosphate ( km 1.34 x 10 ( -4 ) m ) and hypoxanthine were substrates for the reverse reaction , namely , the enzymatic synthesis of nucleosides .
the initial velocity studies of the saturation of the enzyme with guanosine , at various fixed concentrations of inorganic orthophosphate , suggest a sequential bireactant catalytic mechanism for the enzyme .
purification to homogeneity and properties of two d-alanine carboxypeptidases i from escherichia coli .
three homogeneous preparations of d-alanine carboxypeptidases i have been obtained from escherichia coli strain h2143 , termed enzymes ia , ib , and ic .
enzyme ia purified from the membrane after extraction with triton x-100 appeared on sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis to be a polypeptide doublet whose monomer molecular weights were about 32,000 and 34,000 .
in addition to d-alanine carboxypeptidase activity , it catalyzed a transpeptidase reaction with several substrates , bound [ 14c ] penicillin g , had a weak penicillinase activity , but was devoid of endopeptidase activity .
enzyme ib obtained from the membrane after licl extraction and enzyme ic obtained from the supernatant solution were either identical or extremely similar .
they were composed of a single polypeptide whose monomer molecular weight was about 41,000 .
in addition to carboxypeptidase activity , they catalyzed an endopeptidase reaction , had weak penicillinase activity , and had very poor transpeptidase activity , but did not bind [ 14c ] penicillin g .
some data relating to the mechanism of catalysis by these enzymes are described .
their possible physiological role is discussed .
effects of p-hydroxymercuribenzoate binding on the visible absorption spectrum of methemoglobin .
the binding of p-hydroxymercuribenzoate to human methemoglobin causes a perturbation of the visible heme abosrption spectrum which is expressed by an increase in absorbance in the high spin band regions , 480 to 510 nm and 590 to 640 nm , concomitant with a decrease in absorbance in the alpha- and beta-band absorption regions .
the ph dependence of the p-hydroxymercuribenzoate-induced difference spectrum can be accounted for quantitatively by a 5 % shift toward higher spin of the aquo form of methemoglobin , a 15 % shift toward higher spin of the hydroxide form , and a shift in the apparent pka for the water to hydroxide transition from 7.92 to 8.04 when mercurial is bound .
the rate of these heme abosrbance changes is consistent with the rapid second order formation of the beta93 cysteine , mercury-mercaptide bond and does not represent a change due to the dissociation of methemoglobin tetramers into dimers , even though the latter , slow process does follow mercurial binding .
the observation of an increase in spin produced by the binding of a reagent which also promotes dimer formation argues strongly against any direct correlation between an increase in spin and the appearance of deoxyhemoglobin-like conformations .
binding of inositol hexaphosphate to human methemoglobin .
the observed static difference spectrum produced by inositol hexaphosphate binding to methemoglobin is the sum of a very fast and a slow spectral transition .
the more rapid absorbance change is too fast to be measured by stopped flow techniques , whereas the slow change exhibits a half-time in the range 1 to 6 s .
from the ph dependence of the rapidly formed difference spectrum and from a series of heme ligand binding studies , the rapid phase is interpreted to reflect a localized tertiary conformational change which immediately accompanies inositol hexaphosphate binding and results in a selective increase in spin and reactivity of the beta chain heme groups .
in contrast , the slow phase appears to reflect a first order isomerization process which involves only a small portion ( less than 10 % ) of the hemoglobin molecules and results primarily in a marked alteration of the spectral properties of the alpha chains with little change in spin .
while the rapid spectral transition can not be directly related to the overall quaternary transition which occurs during oxygen binding to ferrous deoxyhemoglobin , the slow spectral transition may represent the abortive formation of a deoxyhemoglobin a-like conformation which is inhibited in both rate and extent by the presence of water molecules bound to the heme iron atoms .
molecular size of nerve growth factor in dilute solution .
nerve growth factor ( ngf ) is a protein composed of two identical chains of mass 13,259 .
an analysis of the sedimentation equilibrium , sedimentation velocity , and gel filtration behavior of dilute solutions of ngf indicates the existence of a rapidly reversible monomer in equilibrium dimer equilibrium and that the association constant k for the reaction at neutral ph is 9.4 x 10 ( 6 ) m-1 .
reaction mixtures consist of equal concentrations of monomer and dimer at a total protein concentration as high as 1.4 mug/ml , and at 1 ng/ml , monomer accounts for greater than 99 % of the total .
the latter concentration is 20 to 30 times that required for the biological activity of ngf .
several lines of evidence suggest that the dimerization reaction is highly stereospecific , although its biological significance is not known .
carbon 13 resonances of 13co2 carbamino adducts of alpha and beta chains in human adult hemoglobin .
the principal component of normal adult human hemoglobin ao , was equilibrated under various conditions with 13co2 .
in addition , derivatives containing specifically carbamylated nh2-terinal groups in alpha or beta chains , or both , were prepared by treatment with cyanate , and equilibrated likewise to allow the identification of specific resonances observed by 13c nuclear magnetic resonance .
in deoxyhemoglobin , a resonanance at 29.2 ppm upfield of external cs2 was assigned to the alpha chain terminal adduct , and one at 29.8 ppm to the beta chain terminal adduct .
in the liganded state as the co derivative , the terminal adduct on both chains showed a common resonance position at 29.8 ppm .
small effects of ph on the resonance positions were observed .
under certain conditions , a resonance was observed at 33.4 ppm , probably not ascribable to a carbamino compound .
a carbamino resonance that became prominent at higher ph was found at 28.4 ppm , and is tentatively ascribed to one or more adducts on epsilon amino groups .
the beta chain resonances in particular are minimized by the presence of inositol hexaphosphate or 2,3-diphosphoglycerate .
quantitative analysis of the resonance intensities shows that the effects of conversion from the deoxy to the liganded state in reducing the degree of carbamino adduct is much more pronounced for the beta than for the alpha chains .
purine nucleotide cycle .
evidence for the occurrence of the cycle in brain .
cell-free extracts of rat brain catalyze the reactions of the purine nucleotide cycle .
ammonia is formed during the deamination but not the amination phase of the cycle .
the activity of adenylate deaminase in brain is sufficient to account for the maximum rates of ammonia production that have been reported .
the activity of glutamate dehydrogenase is not sufficient to account for these rates of ammonia production .
the activities of adenylosuccinate synthetase and adenylosuccinase are nearly sufficient to account for the steady state rates of ammonia production observed in brain .
demonstration of the cycle in extracts of brain is complicated by the occurrence of side reactions , in particular those catalyzed by phosphomonoesterase , nucleoside phosphorylase , and guanase .
kinetics of alpha-chymotrypsin dimerization .
a method has been devised which permits the observation of the loss of active sites promoted by aggregation of alpha-chymotrypsin .
when alpha-chymotrypsin in unbuffered solution at ph 7 is mixed with buffered proflavin by stopped flow instrumentation to give a final ph of 3.89 , a decrease in active sites occurs , as measured by a decrease in enzyme-dye complex .
the decrease in the rate of active sites shows a linear dependence on the square of the concentration of active sites remaining at equilibrium .
the kinetic data of the reaction have been correlated with equilibrium measurements .
rate constants for formation and dissociation of dimer are 9.45 x 10 ( 3 ) m ( -1 ) s ( -1 ) and 1.9 s ( -1 ) , , respectively .
calculation of kdis for dimer from rate constants gives a value of 2.01 x 10 ( -4 ) m , while direct determination of kdis gives a value of 1.44 x 10 ( -4 ) m .
effect of lumbar sympathetic blockade and chlorpromazine-induced adrenergic alpha-receptor blockade on skin temperature in peripheral arterial diseases .
the post-cooling toe temperature changes after lumbar sympathetic blockade and after intramuscular administration of an adrenergic alpha-receptor blocking substance ( chlorpromazine ) were studied in 14 patients with impending gangrene because of peripheral arterial insufficiency .
the post-cooling temperature rise was similar after sympathetic blockage and chlorpromazine administration and significantly different from the basal toe temperature changes after cooling .
it is concluded that administration of an adrenergic alpha-receptor blocking substance is as good as the lumbar sympathetic blockage for evaluation of a remaining sympathetic vasomotor tone in arterial disease patients .
serum stimulation of phosphate uptake into 3t3 cells .
the stimulation by calf serum of phosphate uptake into 3t3 cells results from a change in maximum velocity of the transport process with no change in the michaelis constant .
only arsenate among a series of inorganic structural analogs of phosphate inhibited phosphate uptake indicating a high specificity for the process .
the arsenate inhibition was competitive in nature .
papaverine , theophylline , and protaglandin e1 , drugs known to maintain high intracellular levels of camp , had little effect on serum stimulated phosphate uptake .
the phosphate uptake stimulating factor ( s ) in serum could be distinguised from the 3t3 cell survival and migration factors by stability characteristics , but this factor ( s ) could not be completely separated from a uridine uptake stimulation activity or growth promoting activity using a variety of serum fractionation procedures .
only partial stimulation of the uptake process was achieved with any one serum fraction indicating a multiplicity of serum components is probably involved in this process .
because of the rapidity of serum activation of phosphate uptake and its apparent independence of intracellular cyclic nucleotide levels , it is suggested that serum factors may stimulate phosphate uptake by inducing structural changes in the phosphate carrier system .
dinoflagellate bioluminescence : a comparative study of invitro components .
in vitro bioluminescence components of the dinoflagellates gonyaulax polyedra , g. tamarensis , dissodinium lunual , and pyrocystis noctiluca were studied .
the luciferases and luciferins of the four species cross-react in all combinations .
all of these species possess high-molecular weight luciferases ( 200,000-400,000 daltons ) with similar ph activity profiles .
the active single chains of luciferases from the gonyaulax species have a mw of 130,000 while those from p. noctiluca and d. lunula have a mw of 60,000 .
extractable luciferase activity varies with time of day in the two gonyaulax species , but not in the other two .
a luciferin binding protein ( lbp ) can easily be extracted from the two gonyaulax species ( mw approximately 120,000 daltons ) , but none could be detected in extracts of either d. lunula or p. noctiluca .
scintillons are extractable from all four species , but they vary in density and the degree to which activity can be increased by added luciferin .
although the biochemistry of bioluminescence in these dinoflagellates is generally similar , the observations that d. lunula and p. noctiluca apparently lack lbp and have luciferases with low mw single chains require further clarification .
control of phenylalanine hydroxylase synthesis in tissue culture by serum and insulin .
stationary-phase , minimal deviation hepatoma h4-ii-e-c3 cell cultures that are serum-deprived respond with a biphasic time course of phenylalanine hydroxylase induction when dialyzed fetal calf serum or insulin is added .
these two agents induce phenylalanine hydroxylase additively , during both the initial 3-hour and the delayed 24-hour phases .
the initial phase of induction by insulin is inhibited by cycloheximide but not by actinomycin d .
the delayed induction by both dialyzed fetal calf serum and insulin is inhibited by 10 ( -6 ) m cycloheximide and 0.20 mug/ml actinomycin d .
h4-ii-e-c3 cells in culture do not synthesize the factor ( s ) in serum that induce phenylalanine hydroxylase .
reaction of acidified nitrite solutions with peptide derivatives : evidence for nitrosamine and thionitrite formation from 15n n.m.r. studies .
backbone rearrangements of steroidal 5-enes .
reactions of cytosine and cytidine with o-substituted hydroxylamines .
high-speed ion-pair partition chromatography in pharmaceutical analysis .
ion-pair chromatography offers attractive possibilities in pharmaceutical analysis .
the specificity of the separation systems can be varied over a wide range by appropriate selection of the stationary phase .
the choice of a suitable counter-ion can also drastically improve the detection limit , permitting the determination of drug substances in low dosage and possibly of by-products or breakdown products .
ion-pair chromatography of tropane and ergot alkaloids has been investigated using picrate as counter-ion .
alumina , kieselguhr and various grades of silica gel have been tested as supports .
partition properties studied in a batch procedure have been compared with the actual chromatographic conditions .
columns ( 10 cm ) filled with silical gel ( particle size , 5 mum ; pore size , 1000 a ) show the best performance in the separation of hyoscyamine , scopolamine and ergotamine as picrate ion-pairs .
close control of ph and temperature is essential for reproducible separations .
improvements in detection limits between 100 and 300 times have been observed with these systems .
ion-pair extractions of these alkaloids from dosage forms can be used for sample preparation prior to injection on the the column .
this provides an added degree of selectivity and sensitivity .
analytical separation of amino acids on a cation-exchange resin cross-linked with m-divinylbenzene .
the elution bands of acidic and neutral amino acids of protein hydrolysates , emerging from the column of a cation-exchange resin cross-linked with pure m-divinylbenzene , are narrower than those from a resin prepared from styrene and technical divinylbenzene .
as a result of these narrower bands , a more complete resolution of the critical pairs threonine-serine , glycine-alanine and tyrosine-phenylalanine is obtained .
the most probable reason for the narrower elution peaks is the more rapid diffusion of the exchanged components through the bulk of the resin as a result of a more regular arrangement of cross-linkages in the cation-exchange resin prepared from m-divinylbenzene .
[ template chromatography on immobilized oligonucleotides. synthesis and application of oligodeoxyadenosine-5'-phosphate -- deae-cellulose ( author's transl ) ] .
oligomers of deoxyadenylic acid , obtained by polycondensation , were covalently attached to polyvinyl alcohol .
these polymer-bound oligonucleotides undergo very strong adsorption on deae-cellulose such that at neutral ph and with 1 m nacl , partial desorbtion occurs only above 60 degrees .
the use of this pv ( pa ) n-deae-cellulose for the column chromatographic separation of deoxythymidylic acid oligomers obtained by polycondensation , according to the principle of base-pairing , is discussed .
linear oligomers and also pyrophosphate derivatives of thymidylic acid which contain more than five monomer units undergo strong retardation under the conditions of base-pairing .
cyclic oligonucleotides do not show any noticeable interaction with the stationary phase .
thus , through the use of a temperature gradient , it is possible to fractionally separate the polycondensate , giving an average degree of polymerisation of 6 -- 10 .
a rapid and comprehensive system for the routine identification of drugs in biological material based on microphase extraction and drug colour profiles .
the separation of basic , acidic and neutral drugs from propanol-2 extracts of serum , urine and tissue homogenates at different ph values using a micro-phase extraction technique is described .
following preliminary screening , the various drug-containing fractions obtained are further examined by two-dimensional thin-layer chromatography .
the drugs present are identified with reference to documented standards with the aid of a drug colour profile system and rf values relative to three different reference standards .
by means of gas chromatographic analysis of the same extracts , semi-quantitative estimates of the amounts of drugs present , which are sufficiently accurate for clinical emergency purposes , can be made in many instances .
the main advantages of the system are `` clean '' extracts with a minimum of background interference , rapidity ( 4-6 h for a complete analysis ) and systematically documented and visually presented behaviour of drugs after spraying with various chromogenic and fluorogenic reagents , allowing the systematic identification of unknown substances .
ion-exchange chromatography of the more basic amino acids of protein hydrolysates using stepwise changes of buffers containing borate ions .
chromatographic behaviour of alkaloids on thin layers of anion and cation exhangers .
i. ag 1-x4 and cellex d .
the chromatographic behaviour of 48 alkaloids has been studied on bio-rad ag 1-x4 , cellex d and microcrystalline cellulose , eluting with solutions of different ph but constant ionic strength ( 0.5 ) .
many interesting separations were effected on both ag 1-x4 and cellex d layers .
the influence of ph on the chromatographic behaviour of alkaloids has been quantitatively studied and an equation was used that expresses the behaviour of the alkaloids on both ag 1-x4 ( aco- ) and microcrystalling cellulose layers .
the nonapplicability of this equation to cellex d layers is discussed .
determination of trimethylsilyl methylated nucleic acid bases in urine by gas-liquid chromatography .
a method for the determination of the urinary excretion level of methylated nucleic acid bases by gas-liquid chromatography ( glc ) has been developed .
a clean-up procedure prior to glc analysis consisted of hydrolysis , filtration , charcoal adsorption , and anion exchange .
studies to determine optimum derivatization conditions for conversion of the methylated bases to their trimethylsilyl derivatives and to evaluate glc parameters and columns to obtain the best separation were conducted .
application of the method was shown by determining the excretion levels of methylated bases in urine of normal controls and of patients with various types of malignancy .
high-resolution liquid chromatographic analysis of methylated purine and pyrimidine bases in transfer rna .
methylated and major purine and pyrimidine bases were separated and quantified by high-resolution liquid chromatography after hydrolyzing transfer ribonucleic acids ( trnas ) .
separation was accomplished by eluting the hydrolyzed samples from an anion-exchange column with a concentration gradient of ammonium acetate at ph 9.2 .
isolated sample of trna were hydrolyzed to the free bases with a trifluoroacetic acid-formic acid mixture of 200 degrees .
detection limits of 100-200 ng/ml were measured for the methylated bases ; analytical data are reported for ten methylated bases plus the four major bases of calf liver and rat liver trna .
gas chromatographic separation of allylbarbital and butabarbital .
a new gas chromatographic method for the estimation of reserpine and rescinnamine .
under the conditions described for alkaline hydrolysis of reserpine and rescinnamine in absolute and aqueous methanol , and after esterification ( with diazomethane ) of the resulting acid fraction , methyl 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate was quantitatively recovered , whereas methyl trans-3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamate , in normal lighting conditions , was either partly isomerized to methyl cis-trimethoxycinnamate or formed an adduct with a molecule of methanol , yielding methyl 3-methoxy-3- ( 3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl ) propionate .
the structures of the products were established by synthesis , nuclear magnetic resonance studies and mass spectrometry .
this investigation of the hydrolytic conditions allowed a reliable and rapid gas chromatographic determination of reserpine and/or rescinnamine in amounts down to 500 and 2000 mug , respectively , to be devised .
specific ion-exchange chromatography and fluorimetric assay for urinary 3-o-methyldopamine .
a technique for the selective extraction of 3-o-methyldopamine , normetanephrine and metanephrine from a single urine sample has been investigated .
after hydrolysis of the conjugates , the diluted mixture is passed through a dowex 50w-x2 column and the methoxylated amines are eluted by means of concentrated ammonia .
the eluate , containing metanephrine , normetanephrine and 3-o-methyldopamine is evaporated , and a solution of the residue in borate buffer is fractionated under strictly controlled conditions on an amberlite cg-50 column .
the three amines so separated are estimated by specific fluorimetric methods .
the extraction recovery is 80 +/- 3 % for pure solutions and 78 +/- 4 % for 3-o-methyldopamine added to urine .
the fluorimetric procedure , carried out under well-defined conditions , allows the estimation of 10 ng of 3-o-methethyldopamine .
the spectral characteristics of the fluorescent derivative are similar to those obtained with dopamine , so that it can be assumed that iodine oxidation of 3-o-methyldopamine demethylates this compound and oxidises the resulting dopamine to the dopamine fluorophore ( 5,6-dihydroxy-indole ) .
of the compounds that might interfere in the fluorimetric procedure , dopamine , dopa and alpha-methyl-dopa are destroyed by the ammoniacal elution from the dowex column and 3-o-methyl-dopa is eliminated in the effluent from the amberlite column .
the elimination of interfering compounds and the improved separation on amberlite ensure high specificity for this procedure .
we have applied the method to normal urine and to pathological urines from patients with adrenergic tumours or untreated and treated parkinsonian subjects ; vital information has been obtained on the prognosis of adrenergic tumours .
the presence of large amounts of dopamine , normetanephrine and/or metanephrine does not affect the assay for 3-o-methyldopamine .
the method is also applicable to rat and dog urine , and can be applied to tissue extracts with little modification .
analysis of the radioimmunoassay for gonadotropin-releasing hormone ( gnrh ) : studies on the effect of radioiodinated gnrh .
when gnrh is radioiodinated by the chloramine-t method , two immunoreactive labeled species are formed at ph 6.5 with a chloramine-t : gnrh molar ratio of 11:1 , whereas four bands ( i , iia , iib , and iii ) are separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis when the hormone is iodinated at ph 7.5 in a system containing a 97:1 molar ratio of chloramine-t : gnrh .
because they were more stable and were more immunoreactive than the other products , band i and band iia from the latter system were used separately as tracers with niswender antiserum r-42 in radioimmunoassays for gnrh .
the standard curves of each tracer are distinct : when analyzed after log-logit transformation , the band i curve had a mean slope of -3.31 +/- 0.2 ( se ) and a 50 % b/bt level of 9 +/- 0.8 pg ( n=8 ) of synthetic gnrh , whereas the band iia standard curve had a slope of -2.30 +/- 0.6 and a 50 % b/bt value of 20 +/- 0.9 pg ( n=11 ) .
the sensitivity of both assays is approximately 2.0 pg .
gn rh concentrations in plasma and serum samples assayed with band i were consistently greater than those assayed with band iia .
normal adult male plasmas assayed with band i measured 21 +/- 0.9 pg/ml , whereas band iia values were 8 +/- 0.4 pg/ml .
no difference between plasma and serum was detected , nor was there any difference among adult men , adult women , prepubertal children , hypogonadal patients , or hypopituitary patients with either assay .
plasma gnrh concentrations were also similar in jugular and vena cava samples from intact and castrated male rats .
because many of the samples were at or below the sensitivity of the band iia assay , they were concentrated after extraction with either methanol or acid-ethanol .
however , endogenous immunoreactive gnrh could not be concentrated by these extraction procedures .
as measured in the band iia assay , hypothalamic extracts from control adult male rats contained 3.1 +/- 0.4 ng while hypothalami from castrated rats contained 1.4 +/- 0.1 ng .
similar but slightly lower values were obtained with band i .
in contrast , the gnrh content of pineal glands from intact and castrated male rats was similar ( approximately 150 pg ) when determined in either assay .
these studies emphasize that : 1 ) the characteristics of the radioiodinated hormone can influence the quantitation of gnrh ; and 2 ) endogenous plasma concentrations of gnrh are much lower than previously reported .
counterimmunoelectrophoresis of pneumococcal antigens : improved sensitivity for the detection of types vii and xiv .
rapid identification of streptococcus pneumoniae has been reported using counterimmunoelectrophoresis for the detection of specific capsular antigens in serum , cerebrospinal fluid , and urine .
previous clinical studies have failed to detect type vii or xiv pneumococcal antigen .
these two types , however , account for a significant portion of pneumococcal disease .
the incorporation of a sulfonated derivative of phenylboronic acid in the buffer system provides a method for the sensitive detection of these types in artificial mixtures without greatly reducing the sensitivity for the detection of other pneumococcal types .
a problem with false positives encountered using human serum and barbitalbuffer was reduced by the use of buffer containing sulfonated phenylboronic acid .
isolation of streptococcal nuclease b by batch adsorption .
a method has been developed for the preparation of streptococcal nuclease b by batch adsorpton to diethylaminoethyl-cellulose .
the enzyme is homogeneous with respect to nuclease activity and is suitable for use as an antigen in measurement of anti-deoxyribonuclease b levels in sera .
rapid screening of veillonella by ultraviolet fluorescence .
among 51 strains of anaerobic gram-negative cocci belonging to the family veillonellaceae , all strains of veillonella ( v. parvula and v. alcalescens ) displayed red fluorescence under long-wave ( 366 nm ) ultraviolet light , whereas no acidaminococcus or megasphaera demonstrated fluorescence .
in contrast to bacteroides melaninogenicus , growth of veillonella does not require hemin and menadione , and flourescence is rapidly lost upon exposure to air .
the fluorescent component of a strain of v. parvula examined could not be extracted in solution with water , ether , methanol , or chloroform , but was readily extracted with 0.4 n naoh .
spectrophotofluorometrically , the fluorescence maximum of this extract was 660 nm with an excitation maximum of 300 nm , when measured at ph 7.2 and 25 c .
coupled with the gram stain , ultraviolet fluorescence may be a useful tool for rapid screening of veillonella and is particularly helpful for detection and , isolation of this organism from mixed culture .
retention of mercurial preservatives in desiccated biological products .
a variety of bacterins , vaccines , and antisera retained greater than 90 % of their original level of mercurial preservative after lyophilization , and this might influence certain uses of these products .
distribution and removal of added mercury in milk .
distribution patterns of added mercury in raw whole milk after equilibration for 30 min and 2 h at 37 c showed a distribution among acid casein , whey proteins , fat globule membrane , and soluble fat globule membrane of 33 , 28 , 16 , and 2 % .
on the basis of protein content , the fat globule membrane had the highest amount of mercury .
mercury added to milk as mercuric chloride was removed by treatment with thiolated aminoethyl celluloses and reduced human hair .
in a 5 min treatment , 70 , 43 , and 41 % of the mercury was removed by thiosuccinylated aminoethyl cellulose , thionitrocarboxyphenylated aminoethyl cellulose , and reduced human hair , respectively , from whole milk initially containing 1 ppm mercury and equilibrated for 2 h at 37 c prior to treatment .
after treatment for 60 min , 82 , 52 , and 64 % of the mercury was removed by thiosuccinilated aminoethyl cellulose , thionitrocarboxyphenylated aminoethyl cellulose , and reduced hair , respectively .
however , increasing incubation temperature and time prior to treatment decreased the removal efficiencies .
thiosuccinilated aminoethyl cellulose and reduced human hair showed increasing efficiency directly with ph , while thionitrocarboxyphenylated aminoethyl cellulose showed the opposite effect and had higher affinity for mercury at ph 5.5 than at ph 7.5 .
moreover , the rate of removal of mercury at 4 c compared to 37 c was much slower .
the removal of mercury from soluble casein and soluble whey proteins was more efficient than from micellar casein .
protein , lactose content , and ph of milk were not changed by the polymer treatments .
identification of cariogenic bacteria by fluorescent antibody and other techniques : an international symposium .
new york city , april 3-4 , 1975 .
a summary and view of the future .
identification of cariogenic bacteria by fluorescent antibody and other techniques : an international symposium .
new york city , april 3-4 , 1975 .
concluding remarks : the current status of the national caries program .
identification of cariogenic bacteria by fluorescent antibody and other techniques : an international symposium .
new york city , april 3-4 , 1975 .
preface .
identification of cariogenic bacteria by fluorescent antibody and other techniques : an international symposium .
new york city , april 3-4 , 1975 .
welcome and introduction .
glucan inhibition of diffusion in plaque .
schizophrenic inability to disattend from strong aspects of meaning .
electron paramagnetic resonance studies of actin-lipid interaction in aqueous media .
hydrolyzable and nonhydrolyzable 3,4-dichloroaniline-humus complexes and their respective rates of biodegradation .
hydrolysis of a chloro-s-triazine herbicide .
attractants for synanthropic flies .
identification of attractants and coattractants for hippelates eye gnats ( diptera : chloropidae ) .
pyrolysis of chitin , a potential tobacco extender .
chemistry of tobacco constituents .
oxidation of alpha-ionone and the acid-catalyzed rearrangement of 5-keto-alpha-ionone .
metabolism of limonoids .
limonin d-ring lactone hydrolase activity in pseudomonas .
a new hydrolysis procedure for preparation of orange juice for trace element analysis by atomic absorption spectrometry .
the college health-practice preceptorship in the training of physician's assistants .
demonstration of a nonadrenergic inhibitory nervous system in the trachea of the guinea pig .
a nonadrenergic inhibitory nervous system has been demonstrated in the guinea pig trachea .
electrical field stimulation of this system , in the presence of adrenergic and cholinergic blockade , resulted in relaxation of tracheal rings contracted by the mediators of immediate hypersensitivity or histamine .
the relaxation was blocked by tetrodotoxin , which indicated that nerve stimulation was responsible for the relaxation .
the gastrointestinal tract , which has a similar embryological origin to the respiratory tract , also has a nonadrenergic inhibitory system .
in the gastrointestinal tract , this system is thought to be responsible for the relaxation phase of peristalsis , and absence of this system , in the colon and the rectum , is thought to be an explanation for the spastic bowel in hirschsprung's disease .
it is possible that an abnormality of the respiratory nonadrenergic inhibitory system may play a role in the pathogenesis of the hyperreactive airways in asthma .
the airways , due to a lack of inhibition , may be either partially contracted or unable to relax , and thus appear hyperreactive to stimuli .
magnetic circular dichroism studies of low-spin cytochromes .
temperature dependence and effects of axial coordination on the spectra of cytochrome c and cytochrome b5 .
letter : the formation of a semiquinone form of deazafad bound to d-amino acid oxidase .
letter : protostreptovaricins i-v .
letter : general base catalysis in nucleophilic attack at sp3 carbon of methylase model compounds .
non-specific alkaline phosphomonoesterases of eight species of digenetic trematodes .
alkaline phosphatases from different trematodes occupying the same habitat have identical ph otima but different levels of enzyme activities .
isoparorchis hypselobagri , from the fish wallago attu , shows four to six times more enzyme activity than fasciolopsis buski , gastrodiscoides hominis and echinostoma malayanum , from the pig sus scrofa , and fasciola gigantica , gigantocotyle explanatum , cotylophoron cotylophorum and gastrothylax crumenifer , from the buffalo bubalus bubalis .
at least two peaks of activity at different levels of ph were obtained for each trematode examined .
both gastrodiscoides hominis and isoparorchis hypselobagri enzymes had three peaks of alkaline phosphatase activity .
the optimum temperature for maximum enzyme activity was 40 degrees c , above which rapid inactivation occurred .
at temperatures below 40 degrees c , the enzymes of fish and mammalian trematodes did not behave similarly ; i. hypselobagri enzyme being active over a wider range of temperature ( 20 degrees-40 degrees c .
various concentrations of kcn and arsenate proportionately inhibited enzyme activity .
naf did not significantly influence enzyme activity , while mg++ and co++ acted as activators .
the extent of inhibition or activation of enzyme activity of different trematodes varied , probably due to species differences .
both inhibition and activation of i. hypselobagri enzyme was higher than in the case of other trematodes .
fractionation of mycobacterial antigens by vertical electrophoresis in the polyacrylamide gel .
the effect of neonatal rat graft-vs-host disease ( gvhd ) on fc receptor lymphocytes .
the level of fc receptor rosette-forming lymphocytes ( fc-rfl ) was examined in spleen and lymph node cell suspension from neonatal da and bn rats inoculated within 24 hr of birth with either allogeneic l ( experimental ) or syngeneic ( control ) lymphoid cells .
in addition , these levels were compared to fetal and neonatal animals that received no injection .
the indicator cells ( ea ) were sheep erythrocytes sensitized with one-half concentration of the highest dilution of rabbit anti-sheep erythrocyte igg ( a ) which agglutinated an equal amount of 1 % suspension of e .
care was taken to exclude scoring macrophages by injecting colloidal carbon at least 1 hr before killing the test animals .
the spleen of 19-day da fetal rats exhibited a level of 19.3 % fc-rfl , similar to that of animals having received adult syngeneic cells at birth ( 40.0 % ) by day 7 .
thereafter the level of fc-rfl did not vary appreciably between these two groups .
however , as early as 2 days after inoculation there was a significantly greater number of fc-rfl in the spleen of experimental da neonates compared to controls .
the lymph nodes of experimental animals did not exhibit a significantly greater number of fc-rfl until day 6 with both tissue compartments peaking at day 10 and remaining significantly higher than controls until death .
in neonatal bn animals significantly higher levels of fc-rfl in experimental animals were not evident as early and peaked later ( day 12 ) in both tissue compartments but again these differences remained until death .
cytotoxic alloantisera demonstrated that on days 6 , 10 , and 12 most , if not all , of the fc-rfl were host in origion in both da and bn gvhd , with a very significant host plasma cell response in such gvhd animals .
one-micron tissue section revealed the presence of a great number of plasma cell especially prominent in the medulla of lymph nodes with the cortex of lymph nodes and white pulp of the spleen markedly depleted of lymphocytes indicative of cytotoxicity .
kinetics of the antibody response to type iii pneumococcal polysaccharide ( sss-iii ) .
i. use of 125i-labeled sss-iii to study serum antibody levels , as well as the distribution and excretion of antigen after immunization .
a simple method was described for the preparation of 125i-labeled type iii neumococcal polysaccharide ( sss-iii ) with a high specific radioactivity which retained the physical and immunologic properties of native sss-iii .
sss-iii was used to study the serum and tissue levels of antigen , as well as its excretion , after i.p. injection .
when an optimally immunogenic dose ( 0.5 mug ) of antigen was given , greater than 90 % of the injected antigen was excreted during the first 3 days after injection ; however , after day 3 , the sss-iii which remained in each mouse was firmly bound to various tissues , and less than 5 ng sss-iii was released into the circulation daily .
sss-iii was also used in a farr test to measure serum antibody levels ; the kinetics for the appearance of pfc/spleen and serum antibody levels were measured at 24-hr intervals after immunization with 0.5 mug of antigen .
maximum pfc/spleen were observed on day 4 after immunization whereas the peak serum antibody level was seen on day 5 .
the decay of serum antibody level from its maximum value was much slower than that of the pfc/spleen .
the data describing the distribution of sss-iii in vivo and the measurement of serum antibody levels indicated that treadmill neutralization was not a factor in determining the serum antibody levels after immunization with an optimally immunogenic dose of sss-iii .
kinetics of the antibody response to type iii pneumococcal polysaccharide .
ii .
factors influencing the serum antibody levels after immunization with an optimally immunogenic dose of antigen .
when the number of pfc present in the spleen was measured at 24-hr intervals after immunizing with an optimally immunogenic dose of type iii pneumococcal polysaccharide ( sss-iii ) , maximal numbers of pfc were attained 4 days after immunization ; thereafter , the number of pfc decreased rapidly .
by contrast , serum antibody levels , which were measured in the same mice using a farr test , reached peak values 5 days after immunization and then declined much more slowly than did the number of pfc .
two factors were found to contribute to this disparity .
first , experiments conducted with splenectomized mice showed that extrasplenic antibody synthesis , which began between days 3 and 4 after immunization and peaked on days 6 to 7 , accounted for nearly one-third of the total amount of serum antibody produced .
second , the average rate of antibody synthesis by pfc increased through day 6 after immunization and then declined .
antigen-antibody dissociation tests showed that the avidity of the serum antibody obtained 4 to 7 days after immunization was the same .
moreover , during the same interval , all the antibody detected by the farr test was of the igm class .
thus , a change in avidity or class of immunoglobulin after day 5 did not account for the disparity observed .
the clearance rate of antibody injected i.v. into nonimmune and immunized mice was studied .
the data obtained indicated that accelerated clearance of antibody was occurring prior to day 3 after immunization ; however , after day 3 the antibody clearance rate was constant and was the same as that found when antibody was injected into nonimmune mice .
these findings affirmed the results of previous studies showing that treadmill neutralization was not important in determining the serum antibody levels present after immunization with an optimally immunogenic dose of sss-iii .
mouse epidermal aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase .
mouse skin contains a nadph-dependent , aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase ( ahh ) , which is inducible by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons .
in general , unsubstituted polycyclic hydrocarbons caused a greater induction of epidermal ahh than substituted one ( 1,2,3,4-dibenzanthracene greater than 1,2,5,6-dibenzanthracene greater than benz ( a ) anthracene equal 3-methylcholanthrene greater than 7,12-dimethlbenz ( a ) anthracene ) which did not correlate with their ability to initiate tumors in mouse skin .
two different techniques were used to isolate epidermis and similar results were obtained with both .
however , the technique of isolating epidermis using a mild heat treatment required that the temperature be maintained at 52 degrees c for 30 sec .
if the temperature was raised to 54 degrees c or above , there was a large reduction in the ahh activity .
isolated epidermis has 4 to 5 times the ahh activity as dermis and about twice that of whole skin .
this was true for control mice or mice in which ahh was induced by pretreatment with benz ( a ) anthracene .
defects in the biochemistry of collagen in diseases of connective tissue .
the collagens are the major structural glycoproteins of connective tissues .
a unique primary structure and a multiplicity of post-translational modification reactions are required for normal fibrillogenesis .
the post-translational modifications include hydroxylation of prolyl and lysyl residues , glycosylation , folding of the molecule into triple-helical conformation , proteolytic conversion of precursor procollagen to collagen , and oxidative deamination of certain lysyl and hydroxylysyl residues .
any defect in the normal mechanisms responsible for the synthesis and secretion of collagen molecules or the deposition of these molecules into extracellular fibers could result in abnormal fibrillogenesis ; such defects could result in a connective tissue disease .
recently , defects in the regulation of the types of collagen synthesized and in the enzymes involved in the post-translational modifications have been found in heritable diseases of connective tissue .
thus far , the primary heritable disorders of collagen metabolism in man include lysyl hydroxylase deficiency in ehlers-danlos syndrome type vi , p-collagen peptidase deficency in ehlers-danlos syndrome type vii , decreased synthesis of type iii collagen in ehlers-danlos syndrome type iv , lysyl oxidase deficency in s-linked cutis laxa and ehlers-danlos syndrome type v , and decreased synthesis of type i collagen in osteogenesis imperfecta .
some properties of proteolysis by polymorphonuclear leukocyte-granule extracts .
the extracts of granules of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes hydrolyzed a variety of proteins including human and bovine hemoglobin , human fibrinogen , human and bovine serum albumin , bovine elastin , and casein .
the hydrolysis of all the proteins except fibrinogen and elastin was increased by addition of urea .
various inhibitors of trypsin , kallikrein , plasmin , clr , cls , and other proteolytic enzymes had no inhibitory effect .
slight inhibition was observed with polyanethol sulfonate and strong inhibition with normal human serum .
serum of patients with hereditary angioneurotic edema having no functional c1-esterase inhibitor was as effective in inhibiting the proteolysis as normal serum .
the inhibitor was localized in 4s fractions of normal serum fractionated on sephadex g-200 .
fractionation of normal serum by ammonium sulfate precipitation , sephadex g-200 filtration , and cm-sephadex chromatography did not result in appearance of inhibitory activity in more than one protein peak , suggesting the possibility that only one inhibitor might be responsible .
since all fractions which contained the inhibitor of proteolysis also contained alpha1-antitrypsin , since sera of patients having low alpha1-antitrypsin levels contained less inhibitory activity , and since antibodies against alpha1-antitrypsin reversed the inhibition obtained from normal serum , the inhibition of proteolysis may be attributed to alpha1-antitrypsin .
inhibition of the antibacterial activity of gentamicin by urine .
urinary levels of antibiotics determine the outcome of treatment of most urinary tract infections .
the antibacterial effect of gentamicin against escherichia coli and pseudomonas aeruginosa in urine was studied .
with use of urinary constituents in concentrations normally found in human urine , it was shown that urine has an inhibitory effect that is dependent upon the acidity and total osmolality of the urine , as well as upon the presence of individual solutes .
up to 40 times as much gentamicin may be needed to prevent the growth of e. coli or p. aeruginosa in concentrated , acidic human urine as is required in broth .
this inhibitory effect may be particularly important when urinary concentrations of gentamicin are reduced either because of a reduction in dosage or because of decreased excretion due to renal insufficiency .
the polysaccharide capsule of bacteroides fragilis subspecies fragilis : immunochemical and morphologic definition .
a large-molecular-weight capsular polysaccharide was isolated from strains of bacteroides fragilis subspecies fragilis .
by means of electron microscopy and staining with ruthenium red , the thick polysaccharide capsule was also visualized .
with use of a radioactive antigen-binding assay , antibody to this capsular polysaccharide was demonstrated in antisera prepared in rabbits to each of eight strains of b. fragilis fragilis .
antibody of similar specificity was not found in antisera prepared to bacteroides melaninogenicus or to strains of bacteroides fragilis subspecies vulgatus and bacteroides fragilis subspecies distasonis ; such antibody was found in antisera to only one of two strains of bacteroides fragilis subspecies thetaiotaomicron .
the radioactive antigen-binding assay is a sensitive test for the detection of antibody to capsular polysaccharide .
this polysaccharide antigen may form the basis of a serogrouping system for b. fragilis .
radioassay for serum and red cell folate .
a simple , reliable assay for serum and red cell folate is described .
it uses plain untreated liquid or powdered milk , requiring no special handling or purification , as binder .
such milk makes it possible to ignore endogenous serum folate binder , since crude ( but not purified ) milk contains a factor which releases folate from serum binder .
it simplifies counting radioactivity by employing a gamma emitting isotope of pteroylglutamic acid ( pga ) , namely the 125i-tyramide of pga .
like the 3h-pga assay of givas and gutcho , it permits the use of stable pga rather than unstable methyltetrahydrofolic acid ( methfa ) standards , because it is carried out at ph 9.3 , a ph at which milk folate binder is unable to distinguish pga from methfa , which is the predominat folate in human tissues .
the equipment required to do the radioassay is present in most diagnostic chemistry laboratories .
results are essentially identical to the generally accepted lactobacillus casel microbiologic method of folate assay , except that false low results are not produced in the radioassay by antibiotics , tranquilizers , and chemotherapeutic agents .
three caveats in its use are the relative instability of 125i-pga as compared to 3h-pga , the fact that various powdered milks differ widely in folate-binding capacity , and that only about 60 per cent of commercially obtained skim or powdered milk preparations appear to contain the substance which splits folate from serum binder .
the effect of environmental ph on glycosaminoglycan metabolism by normal human chondrocytes .
the synthesis and release of sulfated glycosaminoglycans by normal human chondrocytes in culture are markedly affected by environmental ph .
the biosynthetic rate is increased threefold as the ph of the growth medium is raised from 7.0 to 8.0 .
this coincides with a corresponding elevation in total protein and cell growth .
the rate of release of newly synthesized sulfated glycosaminoglycans from the cell layer as well as their distribution between intra- and extracellular localization in the cell layer is also modulated by environmental ph .
at ph 8 , 35 per cent is found within the cells , this value is reduced to 13 per cent at ph 7 .
pulse-chase experiments showed that previously incorporated sulfated proteoglycans were released at a faster rate at ph 7 than at ph 8 .
the data suggest that proton concentrations affect the biosynthesis and the mode of distribution of newly synthesized sulfated glycosaminoglycans .
effect of pga1 , pge2 , diazoxide on myocardial contractile force .
experiments were conducted in anesthetized dogs comparing the effects of pga1 , pge2 , and diazoxide on myocardial contractile force ( mc ) .
the three agents were given in successive bolus injections intravenously in equidepressor doses and myocardial contractile force was measured by means of a strain-gauge arch sutured onto the right ventricle .
the drugs were administered before and during ganglionic ( hexamethonium ) and beta-blockade ( practolol ) .
both pga1 , and pge2 caused a marked rise in mc , 24 and 20 per cent , respectively , before blockade and 10 and 11 per cent during blockade .
diazoxide caused only a minimal rise , 0.9 per cent , before blockade and a marked fall , 27 per cent , during blockade .
diazoxide administration during left ventricular bypass indicates that the decrease in mc is not a direct result of alterations in preload or after load .
it is suggested that hypertensive patients treated with autonomic blocking agents may be more susceptible to heart failure in response to diazoxide therapy .
peptide-binding macromolecules in the blood of seriously ill or mentally retarded patients .
this report describes macromolecules that bind ( des-aspartic acid1 ) -angiotensin ii , the des aspartic acid1 derivative of angiotensin i , and several biologically active and inactive analogues of these polypeptides .
the macromolecules were found in the plasma of approximately 2 per cent of ambulatory adults and hospitalized children and 32 per cent of the patients at two institutions for the mentally retarded .
the binding properties of these macromolecules were studied by incubating with peptides labeled with 125iodine , and separating bound from free labeled peptide using small gel filtration columns .
the peptide-binding macromolecules from several patients were compared .
they showed very similar specificity for a group of arginyl peptides of the des-aspartyl1-angiotensin sequence .
the plasma binders differed from one another in their optimum ph and their mobility in electrophoretic fields .
those with more acid ph optima displayed more rapid electrophoretic mobility .
the binders fell into two classes based on apparent molecular weight , approximately 140,000 and 250,000 .
those with the higher apparent molecular weight contained a large proportion of binder that could be precipitated with antiserum to human iga .
kinetic measurements showed that the plasma binders were somewhat heterogeneous with respect to affinity for ( des-asp1 ) -angiotensin , with apparent association constants ranging from 10 ( 7 ) to 10 ( 8 ) m-1 .
binding activity was labile to heat , and to treatment with pepsin or trypsin .
it was inhibited by calcium , protamine , streptomycin , and some other cationic compounds .
the plasma peptide binder differed in specificity and molecular weight from soluble angiotensin-binding molecules extracted from tissues , and from properties expected of a receptor for angiotensin .
these macromolecules may be useful reagents for measuring ( des-asp1 ) -angiotensins .
their presence in plasma samples may interfere with angiotensin assays in some circumstances .
testicular tumor .
the transmission of impulses in the ectodermal slow conduction system of the sea anemone calliactis parasitica ( couch ) .
1. the ss 1 fatigues in response to repetitive electrical stimulation .
this fatigue is manifested by an increased conduction delay and a decreased ss 1 pulse amplitude .
2. continued repetitive stimulation leads to the failure of the system .
recovery may take many seconds .
narrow strips of column fail more rapidly than wide strips .
3. the increased conduction delay is explained in terms of a decrease in the population of spiking cells .
4. a computer model is described and analysed .
it suggests that conduction between electrically coupled ectoderm cells could be the basis for the ss1 .
the ss 1 may have properties not so far experimentally demonstrated ; for example , under certain conditions it could behave as a local system .
colonial conduction systems in the anthozoa : octocorallia .
1. the octocorals alcyonium digitatum , pennatula phosphorea and virgularia mirabilis each have a through-conducting nerve net .
the nerve net demonstrated electrophysiologically may well be the same as that previously shown by the use of histological techniques .
2. it exhibits both facilitation and defacilitation in the rate of conduction of pulses .
3. the distance of spread of nerve net activity is not limited by the number of stimuli applied .
4. the nerve net controls fast muscle contractions ; the frequency of pulses is important in determining which muscles contract and in which sequence .
5. the nerve net is 'spontaneously ' active .
6. a previously undescirbed slow system has been identified in pennatula .
it has many of the properties of slow systems in sea anemones and may well be ectodermal .
it is suggested that multiple conduction systems are of common occurrence in the anthozoa .
water regulation by a presumptive hormone contained in identified neurosecretory cell r15 of aplysia .
injection of an homogenate of identified neuron r15 into the hemocele of aplysia produced a weight increase of 3-10 % within 90 min .
control injections of several other identified neurons or of seawater , were ineffective .
the weight increase occurred even when the animals were maintained in 5 % hyperosmotic seawater .
the activity of the r15 homogenate was retained after acidification to ph 2 and heating to 100 degrees c ; but activity was destroyed by proteolytic digestion with pronase .
dialysis in cellulose dialysis tubing resulted in a significant loss of aion on sephadex g-50 ( nominal exclusion limits 1,500-30,000 daltons ) , activity was present in the partially included volumes , but was absent in the totally excluded or totally included volumes .
the data support the notion that r15 contains one or more hormones involved in ionic regulation or water balance .
the results of bioassays of r15 extracts subjected to different treatments are consistent with the hypothesis that activity is due to one or more stable polypeptides of relatively low molecular weight .
intracellular ph transients in squid giant axons caused by co2 , nh3 , and metabolic inhibitors .
the intracellular ph ( phi ) of squid giant axons has been measured using glass ph microelectrodes .
resting phi in artificial seawater ( asw ) ( ph 7.6-7.8 ) at 23 degrees c was 7.32 +/- 0.02 ( 7.28 if corrected for liquid junction potential ) .
exposure of the axon to 5 % co2 at constant external ph caused a sharp decrease in phi , while the subsequent removal of the gas caused phi to overshoot its initial value .
if the exposure to co2 was prolonged , two additional effects were noted : ( a ) during the exposure , the rapid initial fall in phi was followed by a slow rise , and ( b ) after the exposure , the overshoot was greatly exaggerated .
application of external nh4cl caused phi to rise sharply ; return to normal asw caused phi to return to a value below its initial one .
if the exposure to nh4cl was prolonged , two additional effects were noted : ( a ) during the exposure , the rapid initial rise in phi was followed by a slow fall , and ( b ) after the exposure , the undershoot was greatly exaggerated .
exposure to several weak acid metabolic inhibitors caused a fall in phi whose reversibility depended upon length of exposure .
inverting the electrochemical gradient for h+ with 100 mm k-asw had no effect on phi changes resulting from short-term exposure to azide .
a mathematical model explains the phi changes caused by nh4cl on the basis of passive movements of both nh3 and nh4+ .
the simultaneous passive movements of co2 and hco3- can not explain the results of the co2 experiments ; these data require the postulation of an active proton extrusion and/or sequestration mechanism .
analysis of an l-histidinol-utilizing mutant of pseudomonas aeruginosa .
transductional analysis was applied to the pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant pao14 ( hnc-1 ) .
this mutant can utilize l-histidinol as sole source of carbon and nitrogen and has a 60-fold increased histidinol dehydrogenase ( hdh ) content ( dhawale , creaser & loper , 1972 ) .
transductional analysis was carried out using 18 histidine-requiring mutants to see where the hnc-1 locus maps in relation to the structural genes of histidine biosynthesis .
the hnc-1 marker cotransduced with group iv genes at 97 to 100 % and not at all with group i , which is known to be the structural gene for hdh .
the data obtained in the studies of km ( histidinol ) and km ( nad ) , and the effect of ph and temperature on the hdh activity from pao1 and pao14 are in full agreement with the genetic data that the hnc-1 mutation is not in the structural gene for hdh .
it is suggested that hnc-1 may be a mutation in a regulatory gene affecting hdh synthesis in pao14 and may map close to his-iv whose function in histidine biosynthesis is not known .
studies on the rumen flagellate neocallimastix frontalis .
the vast increase in the population density of the rumen flagellate neocallimastix frontalis shortly after the host animal has commenced eating is caused by stimulation of a reproductive body on a vegetative phase of the organism to differentiate and liberate the flagellates .
the stimulant is a component of the host's diet .
the vegetative stage of n. frontalis bears a strong morphological resemblance to that of certain species of aquatic phycomycete fungi , and consists of a reproductive body borne on a single , much branched rhizoid .
the flagellates liberated in vivo within 15 to 45 min of feeding lose their motility within i h and develop into the vegetative phase , thus producing a rapid decrease in population density of the flagellates .
conditions for maximum flagellate production are similar to those occurring in the rumen : ph 6-5 , 39 degrees c , absence of o2 , presence of co2 .
differentiation of the reproductive body is inhibited by compounds affecting membrane structure and function , but not by inhibitors of protein synthesis .
the organism was cultured in vitro in an undefined medium in the absence of bacteria or other flagellates .
properties of some bacteriocins produced by rhizobium trifolii .
bacteriocins produced by six strains of rhizobium trifolii were found to be of the relatively low molecular weight , non-phage type .
the molecular weights ranged from approximately 1-8 x 105 to 2-0 x 105 .
all were of protein composition , as indicated by buoyant density ( 1-32 to 1-34 g/cm3 ) in csc1 and by sensitivity to proteolytic enzymes .
they were resistant to rnaase but sensitive to dnaase .
the six bacteriocins could further be separated into two subgroups on the basis of sensitivity to extremes of ph , binding to filter membranes , activity spectrum on sensitive strains of r. trifolii , and possibly mode of action on sensitive bacteria .
bacteriocin production occurred spontaneously during the early-to mid-exponential phase of bacterial growth in broth culture .
hyphal tip bursting in mucor rouxii : antagonistic effects of calcium ions and acid .
production and purification of the gamma haemolysin of staphylococcus aureus 'smith 5r ' .
the gamma haemolysin of staphylococcus aureus 'smith 5r ' was produced on dolman-wilson agar overlain with cellophane .
maximal yields of crude lysin with titres of 2000 to 4000 haemolytic units/ml were obtained within 24 h at 37 degrees c in 10 % ( v/v ) co2 in air , on medium adjusted to ph 7-0 .
the crude lysin was purified 2700-fold ( with 75 % recovery ) by ultrafiltration , gel filtration and ammonium sulphate fractionation .
the specific activity of the lysin was 10 ( 5 ) haemolytic units/mg protein after the dialysed active precipitate was extracted with nacl and reprecipitated with ammonium sulphate .
purified gamma lysin was homogeneous by disc electrophoresis and immunoelectrophoresis .
basic and neutral amino acid transport in aspergillus nidulans .
arginine and methionine transport by aspergillus nidulans mycelium was investigated .
a single uptake system is responsible for the transport of arginine , lysine and ornithine .
transport is energy-dependent and specific for these basic amino acids .
the km value for arginine is 1 x 10 ( -5 ) m , and vmax is 2-8 nmol/mg dry wt/min ; km for lysine is 8 x 10 ( -6 ) m ; kt for lysine as inhibitor of arginine uptake is 12 mum , and ki for ornithine is mm .
on minimal medium , methionine is transported with a km of 0-i mm and vmax about i nmol/mg dry wt/min ; transport is inhibited by azide .
neutral amnio acids such as serine , phenylalanine and leucine are probably transported by the same system , as indicated by their inhibition of methionine uptake and the existence of a mutant specifically impaired in their transport .
the recessive mutant nap3 , unable to transport neutral amino acids , was isolated as resistant to selenomethionine and p-fluorophenylanine .
this mutant has unchanged transport of methionine by general and specific sulphur-regulated permeases .
polyamino acid induced aphid transmission of plant viruses .
aphids transmitted poly-l-ornithine ( plo ) -treated tobacco mosaic virus ( tmv ) when given acquistion and inoculation access periods as brief as 30 s and 2 min , respectively ; the ability to transmit was lost within 90 min .
aphids without claws were able to transmit the virus .
transmission thus seems similar to that of nonpersistent viruses .
the ratio of virus to polyamino acid , as well as the kcl concentration , markedly affected transmission .
transmission was best from mixtures which contained 250 mug/ml tmv , 2-5 mug/ml plo ( mol. wt. 120000 ) and 0-6 m-kcl .
a similar mixture favoured transmission when poly-l-lysine ( mol. wt. 85000 ) was substituted for plo , but with poly-l-lysine ( mol. wt. 30 000 ) it was necessary to decrease the kcl to 0-3 m to obtain transmission .
less kcl ( 0-08 to 0-24 m ) also favoured aphid transmission of plo-treated potato virus x and tobacco rattle virus .
plo-treated tmv ultracentrifuged in the presence of , and resuspended in , 0-6 m-kcl remained aphid transmissible while plo-treated virus in 2 m-dcl , which favours greater dissociation of the virus-plo complex , was transmissible neither before nor after sedimentation by ultracentrifuging , and resuspension in 0-6 m-kcl. these results show that transmissibility is not due to a permanent alteration of the virus by plo and indicate that the formation of a tmv-plo complex is required for transmission .
sequential acquisition experiments suggest that plo may act by binding tmv to receptor sites in aphids .
however , the possibility that plo affects the infection process was not ruled out .
disruption of vi bacteriophage iii and localization of its deacetylase activity .
it has been shown that particles of vi bacteriophage iii catalyse deacetylation of o-acetyl pectic ( polygalacturonic ) acid , a structural analogue of vi polysaccharide ( vi antigen ) .
using this substrate , and determining the acetic acid liberated by gas-liquid chromatogrphy , a method for the estimation of vi phage deacetylase activity has been developed .
purified particles of vi phage iii were exposed to a variety of mildly dissociative reagents and conditions , and then tested for plaque-forming and for deacetylase activity .
they have also been inspected under the electron microscope .
osmotic shock , and incubation in the presence of ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid ( greater than or equil 0-01 m ) , or of l-arginine ( 0-25 m ) , were found to cause disintegration of the virions into empty head capsids , deoxyribonucleic acid , and base plates still carrying the spikes .
the mixtures of viral fragments exhibited an increased deacetylase activity .
using zonal sedimentation and ion exchange chromatography , the phage fragments obtained by treatment with ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid have been fractionated and the base plates isolated .
amongst the viral components , these structures showed the highest specific deacetylase activity .
they had the shape of six-pointed stars ( about 9-5 nm inner , and 14-5 nm outer diam. ) with a central hole or plug ( approximately 3 nm ) , carrying six spikes , roughly cylindrical organelles of approx. 11 x 4 nm , one at each of the points .
of the polypeptides of six sizes ( p.1 , about 153,000 daltons ; p.2 , 91,000 ; p.3 , 71,000 ; p.4 56,500 ; p.6 , 22,000 ) , detected in whole vi phage iii virions by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis , only two , p.2 and p.3 were found in the base plates .
a model to replace psychiatric hospitals .
a comprehensive system of community treatment in southwest denver has reduced the need for adult psychiatric inpatient beds to less than 1/100,000 population .
six small , community-based therapeutic environments , crisis intervention , home treatment , social systems intervention , and rapid tranquilization comprise the essential components of this total community care system .
the system operates within a framework of citizen participation and community control , the elimination of formal staff offices , and a focus on working in the real-life setting of the client and his family .
to evaluate the effectiveness of community care , patients about to be hospitalized were randomly assigned to a psychiatric hospital or to community alternative treatment .
outcome measures at discharge and at follow-up completed by the client himself , treatment staff , and family members indicate that community treatment was more effective than psychiatric hospitalization .
biochemical changes in rat brain associated with the development of the blood-brain barrier .
the reaction of choline and 3,3-dimethyl-1-butanol with the acetylenzyme from acetylcholinesterase .
the formation of cdp-diglyceride by isolated neuronal nuclei .
dynamic changes in regional cbf , intraventricular pressure , csf ph and lactate levels during the acute phase of head injury .
the authors measured regional cerebral 133xenon ( 133xe ) blood flow ( rcbf ) , intraventricular pressure ( ivp ) , cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) ph and lactate , systemic arterial blood pressure ( sap ) , and arterial blood gases during the acute phase in 23 comatose patients with severe head injuries .
the ivp was kept below 45 mm hg .
the rcbf was measured repeatedly , and the response to induced hypertension and hyperventilation was tested .
most patients had reduced rcbf .
no correlation was found between average cbf and clinical condition , and neither global nor regional ischemia contributed significantly to the reduced brain function .
no correlation was found between cbf and ivp or cbf and cerebral perfusion pressure ( cpp ) .
the csf lactate was elevated significantly in patients with brain-stem lesions , but not in patients with `` pure '' cortical lesiosn .
the 133xe clearance curves from areas of severe cortical lesions had very fast initial components called tissue peaks .
the tissue peak areas correlated with areas of early veins in the angiograms , indicating a state of relative hyperemia , referred to as tissue-peak hyperemia .
tissue-peak hyperemia was found in all patients with cortical laceration or severe contusion but not in patients with brain-stem lesions without such cortical lesions .
the peaks increased in number during clinical deterioration and disappeared during improvement .
they could be provoked by induced hypertension and disappeared during hyperventilation .
the changes in the tissue-peak areas appeared to be related to the clinical course of the cortical lesion .
teaching research by the 'tell ' , 'show ' and 'do ' process .
the honors program approach to undergraduate research in nursing .
item analysis .
criteria for selection of nursing textbooks .
nursing deans as leaders in collegiate health professions .
deans of nursing who choose to be administrators of the health sciences may very well enhance nursing programs by facilitating the nursing faculty to become leaders through offering service courses in health , may thereby help to cut the high cost of nursing education , and may make a contribution to other health majors by sharing their faculty's special expertise in health theory .
changing nursing students ' attitudes toward the aged : an experimental study .
studies of the effect of dietary cholesterol on hepatic protein synthesis , reduced glutathione levels and serine dehydratase activity in the rat .
a basal diet or a basal diet plus 1 % of cholesterol and 0.33 % cholic acid was fed to rats for varying lengths of time and ( 1 ) the activities of liver phosphoenolpyruvate-carboxykinase ( pep-ck ) , tyrosine transaminase ( tt ) , and serine dehydratase ( sd ) ; ( 2 ) the rate of total hepatic protein synthesis and ( 3 ) the concentration of hepatic reduced glutathione ( gsh ) were quantitated .
the specific activity of pep-ck was significantly depressed by cholesterol plus cholic acid feeding , while the specific activity of tt was unchanged .
no significant effect of dietary cholesterol plus cholic acid was found on the total liver activities .
in contrast , sd specific activity was increased 3-fold .
the rate of ( u-14c ) -l-leucine incorporation into total tca precipitable protein following ingestion of cholesterol plus acid was significantly reduced when the data were expressed as dpm ( u-14c ) -l-leucine/mg protein .
after correcting this expression for specific radioactivity of the liver tissue free leucine pool , no significant effect of dietary cholesterol plus cholic acid on hepatic protein synthesis existed .
in fact , the amount of 14c-leucine incorporated into protein on a total liver basis was 50 % greater for the cholesterol group .
on a per gram of liver basis , the concentration of gsh in the liver of rats fed a cholesterol plus cholic acid diet was significantly decreased .
considering the liver enlargement in rats fed cholesterol plus cholic acid , total organ gsh was found to be significantly greater than for rats fed a basal diet .
thiamine triphosphatase activity of myosin and accelerating effect of thiamine di- and tri-phosphates on superprecipitation of actomyosin .
ttp accelerated atp-induced superprecipitation of actomyosin in as low a concentration as 30 mum and decreased light scattering by actomyosin .
these effects could also be observed in the same way , but to a lesser degree , by addition to tdp .
myosin was able to hydrolyze ttp to tdp , but some important differences were confirmed between myosin ttpase and atpase .
myosin ttpase was inhibited by actin and showed a much larger km than that of atpase .
ttp significantly inhibited myosin b atpase and atp greatly inhibited myosin b ttpase .
these findings suggest that the accelerating effect of tdp and ttp may be due to the binding of thiamine phosphate to the regulatory site of myosin followed by a change in its physical chemical property , rather than due to the competitive binding of thiamine phosphate to the catalytically activity site of myosin .
countercurrent immunoelectrophoresis for the diagnosis of pneumococcal pneumonia in children .
the meaning of the leydig cell in relation to the etiology of cryptorchidism : an experimental electron-microscopic study .
in our electron-microscopic studies of testicular biopsies , both normal and cryptorchid , we found a simple atrophy of the leydig cell in the cryptorchid testis .
based on experiments by raynaud1,2 and jean3 on pregnant mice , we tried to find the reason for changes in the leydig cell relating to the etiology of cryptorchidism .
we found on electron microscopic study of testes in the offspring of pregnant mice treated with estrogen the same atrophy of the leydig cell as we see in human cryptorchidism .
these changes are not evident when estrogen and hcg are given together .
we can conclude from this experiment that lack of gonadotropin stimulation leads to the atrophy of leydig cells .
this atrophy then produces a lack of androgen which could be responsible for cryptorchidism .
[ improvement in performances of an apparatus testing membrane resorption in vitro , by automatic adjustment and regulation of ph ] .
[ pharmacokinetics parameters of the gastrointestinal absorption of drugs ( author's transl ) ] .
the in vitro adsorption of drugs from horse serum onto carbon coated with an acrylic hydrogel .
in vitro studies have shown that uncoated carbon and carbon coated with an acrylic hydrogel are capable of adsorbing drugs from horse serum at 37 degrees .
increase in the coating weight from 2 to 4 % decreased the rate of adsorption but not the total capacity .
in vivo data supports the concept of carbon haemoperfusion for use in the treatment of drug overdose .
the interaction of antihistamines with lecithin monolayers .
the interaction of a series of antihistamines with monolayers of l-alpha-dipalmitoyl lecithin has been examined .
an increase in the monolayer surface pressure was noted for monolayers spread on the antihistamine solutions , suggesting penetration of the film by drug molecules .
at high surface pressures there was an apparent ejection of drug molecules from the film .
the ability of the antihistamines to increase surface pressure was correlated with their surface activity at the air-solution interface .
the effect of drug concentration on the magnitude of the surface pressure was examined for diphenhydramine hydrochloride .
application of the gibbs adsorption equation at low surface compressions indicated an approximate area per molecule for diphenhydramine in the film which was in good agreement with the value previously obtained at the air-solution interface .
preliminary measurements showed that the surface pressure increase was larger in the presence of phosphate buffer at ph 6-8 .
it was not clear whether this effect was caused by the buffer components or was a ph effect .
effect of surfactant monomers on chloramphenicol association to an albumin-lecithin complex : a model for modified drug absorption .
the binding of chloramphenicol to an albumin-lecithin complex in the presence or absence of premicellar concentrations of both ionic and non-ionic surfactants has been examined .
long chain , strong ionic detergents , such as sodium dodecyl sulphate or cetyltrimethylammonium bromide , severely perturb protein structure and eventually allow full separation of the complex into lecithin and albumin-detergent complexes .
the dissociation process is reversible upon the removal of the detergent by exhaustive dialysis .
after the splitting of the complex , the amount of antibiotic associated with the lipid-protein mixture increases .
structural alteration of the albumin-lecithin complex and the increase in the binding of chloramphenicol have an effect on the transfer rate of this antibiotic across an artificial barrier consisting of an aqueous dispersion of the same complex , as observed in a model system .
it is suggested that a reversible alteration in membrane structure , and consequently in membrane permeability , might be easily effected , at the molecular level , through a reversible dissociation of structural lipoproteins into their components , operated by premicellar concentrations of ionic surfactants .
this represents a tentative picture of the possible events taking place within the membrane and modifying the absorption rate of a drug , when it is associated with surfactants in a pharmaceutical preparation .
the effect of blending on the rheological properties of gelatin solutions and gels .
the effect of blending on rheological properties for an acid and alkaline processed gelatin has been investigated .
blending of weak gels ( 1-0-3-5 % w/v at 25 degrees ) , resulted in a decrease in gel rigidity whereas in the stronger gels ( 5-50 % w/v at 25 degrees ) and solutions ( 18 % and 30 % w/v at 35 degrees ) , an increase occurred .
the decrease in structure in the weak gels is considered to be due to coulombic effects , minimum strength occurring for a mixture which possessed zero charge in solution .
a tentative explanation for effects in rigid gels and concentrated solutions is offered .
amphetamine tachyphylaxis in the pithed guinea-pig .
a single dose of ( + ) -amphetamine ( 8 mg kg-1 , i.p. ) administered 4 h before experimentation , reduced the pressor and positive chronotropic effects elicited by this drug ( 0-6 mg kg-1 , i.v. ) and augmented the rate of the development of tachyphylaxis to these responses in the pithed guinea-pig preparation .
amphetamine pretreatment reduced the pressor and positive chronotropic effects of phenylephrine ( 0-1 mg kg-1 , i.v. ) and the positive chronotropic effects of angiotensin ( 30 mug kg-1 , i.v. ) .
the rate of the development of tachyphylaxis to the cardiovascular responses elicited by phenylephrine and angiotensin was augmented by amphetamine pretreatment .
the results suggest that an indirect mechanism ( noradrenaline ) may in part mediate the cardiovascular effects of these 3 drugs and/or that amphetamine may act as a competitive antagonist at adrenoceptor sites .
phenylbutazone-warfarin interaction in the dog .
the administration of phenylbutazone together with warfarin to dogs resulted in an elevation of the free fraction of warfarin in the plasma from 2-6 to 8-0 % thus providing direct support for the notion that phenylbutazone induced inhibition of warfarin binding to plasma proteins .
this inhibition as evaluated by a kinetic method was accompanied by a two-fold decrease in the plasma half-life of warfarin from 18-4 h in control animals to 9-6 h in phenylbutazone-treated animals .
marked increases in warfarin-induced hypoprothrombinaemia were observed when at doses up to 8 mg kg-1 ( orally ) it was given with phenylbutazone ( 50 mg kg-1 , orally ) .
the unbound fraction of warfarin in canine plasma ranged from 1-7 to 4-3 % indicating individual differences in the extent of the plasma binding of warfarin in the dog .
the effect of pancuronium on myocardial contraction and catecholamine metabolism .
the effects of pancuronium bromide infusion on the uptake and release of [ 14c ] noradrenaline ( 14c-na ) by the isolated , perfused rat heart and on the chronotropic and inotropic activity of the isolated heart were evaluated .
hearts were removed from animals under light ether anaesthesia , transferred to a modified langendorff perfusing apparatus and perfused with krebs-ringer bicarbonate solution at a rate of 5 ml min-1 .
the effect of pancuronium on the uptake of noradrenaline was determined by perfusing hearts for 5 min with perfusate containing various concentrations of pancuronium and 200 ng ml-1 of 14c-na .
after 5 min pancuronium-treated hearts contained less 14c-na .
the degree of reduced uptake increased with increasing concentrations of pancuronium .
in addition , the combination of pancuronium perfusion and electrical stimulation ( 15 ma for 10 ms at 4 hz ) blocked the 50 min uptake of 14c-na by the heart to a greater degree than either factor separately .
the release of noradrenaline was determined after perfusing hearts with 14c-na followed by perfusion with solution containing pancuronium but no 14c-na for 1 h .
pancuronium infusion did not significantly alter the release of 14c-na from the heart after 1 h of perfusion .
the infusion of pancuronium caused a reduction in both the rate and strength of myocardial contraction of the isolated heart which was reversed by perfusion with perfusate free of pancuronium .
following perfusion with pancurnium the rate and strength of contraction of the heart was seen to `` rebound '' above pre-pancuronium values for a short period .
the rebound of myocardial rate and contraction may have been due to the presence of myocardial noradrenaline previously blocked from reuptake by pancuronium since hearts removed from reserpinized animals did not demonstrate `` rebound . ''
metabolism of delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol by the isolated perfused dog lung .
comparison with in vitro liver metabolism .
the metabolism of ( - ) -delta1-tetrahydrocannabinol ( delta1-thc ) has been studied in the isolated perfused dog lung .
after intravascular administration of [ 3h ] -delta1-thc there was an overall biotransformation of 12 % .
two major metabolites were isolated and identified as 3'-hydroxy-delta1-thc and 4'-hydroxy-delta1-thc .
7-hydroxy-delta1-thc was also present together with small amounts of 6alpha-hydroxy-delta1-thc and 6beta-hydroxy-delta1-thc .
an in vitro experiment using a dog liver microsomal preparation was also carried out and showed that the major metabolites were 6beta-hydroxy-delta1-thc and 6alpha-hydroxy-delta1-thc .
7-hydroxy-delta1-thc and 1,2-epoxy-hexahydrocannabinol were also isolated together with small amounts of 3'-hydroxy-delta1-thc and 4'-hydroxy-delta1-thc .
the side-chain hydroxylated compounds are hitherto undescribed metabolites of delta1-thc .
determination of low cencentrations of the quaternary ammonium compound thiazinamium methylsulphate in plasma and urine .
a sensitive and selective method for the quantitative determination of the quaternary ammonium antiacetylcholine-compound thiazinamium methylsulphate ( multergan ) in plasma and urine is described .
the procedure is based on ion pair extraction of the compound with iodide as the counter ion .
this is followed by gas chromatography using an alkali flame ionization detector .
the detection limit is 2 ng ml-1 with a recovery of 88-0 +/- 6-2 % from plasma , 91-4 +/- 4-6 % from urine .
the described method can also be applied to other quaternary ammonium compounds .
a modified structure for the acetylcholinesterase receptor .
pharmacological implications of the x-ray structure of a rigid analogue of the tricyclic antidepressants .
the use of kanamycin in equilibrium dialysis at 37 degrees .
the temperature dependence of [ 8-3h ] adenosine labelling of the perfused bovine and canine adrenal gland .
a complementary method for the quantitative evaluation of rat stomach with shay-ulcer .
an investigation of the mechanisms responsible for a reduction in capillary filtration coefficient in the innervated cat jejunum on intravenous infusion of histamine .
comparative study on the effect of neostigmine , trimetaphan an oxyphenonium on some aspects of 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolism in rats .
caesium ion : antagonism to chlorpromazine- and l-dopa- produced behavioural depression in mice .
dissociation by the aporphine derivatives of the stereotypic and hyperactivity responses resulting from injections into the nucleus accumbens septi .
neuronally-induced vasodilator response in the splanchnic region of the chloralosed cat .
effects of psychotropic drugs on prostaglandin biosynthesis in vitro .
( 3,4-dihydroxy-phenylamino ) -2-imidazoline ( dpi ) , a new potent agonist at dopamine receptors mediating neuronal inhibition .
failure of pyruvate to counteract isoniazid toxicity in rabbits .
further studies on brain concentrations of amphetamine and its metabolites in strains of mice showing different sensitivity to pharmacological effects of amphetamine .
kinetics and mechanisms of drug action on microorganisms xxii : effects of aminosidine with and without organism pretreatment with bacteriostatic agents .
escherichia coli generation in the logarithmic growth phase was inhibited in peptone broth usp at ph 7.0 without kill below 3.0 mug/ml of aminosidine .
above this value , the logarithms of the number of viables of the drug-treated culture ultimately decreased linearly with time and the slopes of these plots were independent of concentration .
a concentration-dependent lag in the time of attainment of the cidal action was observed , and the extent of this lag was related to the ease of emergence of resistant organisms .
the minimal concentration for cidal action increased with increasing concentrations of nutrients and with decreasing ph .
pretreatment of the cultures with novobiocin and tetracycline lessened the minimum bactericidal concentration of aminosidine whereas chloramphenicol pretreatment increased it .
tetracycline pretreatment inhibited the emergence of aminosidine-resistant organisms .
elementary osmotic pump .
the elementary osmotic pump is a new delivery system for drugs or other active agents ; it delivers the agent by an osmotic process at a controlled rate .
control resides in the : ( a ) water permeation characteristics of a semipermeable membrane surrounding the formulated agent , and ( b ) osmotic properties of the formulation .
in its simplest embodiment , the system is constructed by coating an osmotically activie solid agent with the rate-controlling , semipermeable membrane .
this membrane contains an orifice of critical size through which solubilized agent is dispensed .
the system can contain the agent in solid form at loading higher than 90 % of the total volume , and the agent can be delivered at rates several orders of magnitude higher than can be achieved by solution diffusion through polymeric membranes .
the delivery rate , the fraction of total content delivered at zero order , and the system's delivery portal size have been calculated for delivery of a single compound .
experimental work verified the theory .
the release rate from the system was found to be independent of outside agitation when the system is not deformed by shaking action , the ph of the environment , and delivery portal size for sizes within a specified range .
the delivery rate from this system in vitro and in the gi tract of dogs was found to be equal .
new and expedient determination of atenolol in biological samples .
a method is described for the glc determination of atenolol bp in plasma and urine .
extraction is accomplished under dehydrating conditions , and interfering impurities are removed by using an acidified cyclohexane-isopropanol mixture ( 2:1 ) and charcoal-treated paper disks .
the drug thus isolated appears to react more efficiently with heptafluorobutyric anhydride , increasing the sensitivity of glc electron-capture analysis .
concentrations as low as 0.02 mug/ml were measured using 0.5-ml aliquots of plasma or 0.1 ml of urine .
amino alcohols such as atenolol may form hydrates or alcoholates , precluding complete derivatization with heptafluorobutyric anhydride .
time course and dose dependence of antacid effect on urine ph .
daily administration of a proprietary magnesium and aluminum hydroxides suspension , 15 ml four times a day , to normal adult volunteers resulted in a statistically significant increase in urine ph on the 1st day of treatment .
the urine ph's on the 2nd and subsequent days of treatment were statistically significantly higher than on the 1st day .
a 7.5-ml dose of the antacid suspension , taken four times a day , had only a small and not statistically significant effect on urine ph , while 30 ml four times a day increased urine ph by approximately the same magnitude as the 15-ml doses .
the effect of the antacid on urine ph persisted for at least 1 day after discontinuation of dosing .
quantitative analysis of tribromsalan in blood and urine .
tribromsalan can be quantitatively measured in whole blood and urine by a technique involving extraction with ethyl acetate , treatment with silica gel , separation by tlc , and quantitative measurement by fluorescent spectrophotometry .
this method has a sensitivity down to 125 ng ( 25 ppb in 5.0 ml of sample ) of free tribromsalan and shows an average 90 % recovery of tribromsalan in blood and urine with standard deviations of 9.7 and 7.4 % , respectively .
ph-dependent secretion of procainamide into saliva .
the relationship between serum and stimulated , mixed saliva concentrations of procainamide was determined in 12 chronically medicated patients .
samples were obtained at times chosen to approximate the maximum and minimum serum concentrations of the drug during a dosing interval .
marked intersubject variability was found in the ratio of saliva to serum concentration of the drug ( 0.27-8.93 ) .
there was no correlation between the dose ( milligrams per kilogram per day ) and the minimum serum or saliva concentration of procainamide .
saliva ph ranged from 6.3 to 8.0 in eight subjects .
the ratio of saliva to serum concentration of procainamide increased with decreasing ph .
this result can be largely explained by the ph-dependent ionization and distribution of procainamide , a weak base .
vehicle for stabilizing aluminum hydroxide gel .
sympathetic cardiovascular effects of experimental strychnine poisoning in dogs .
the cardiovascular effects of intravenously administered strychnine were studied in anesthetized and paralyzed dogs .
administration of strychnine in cumulative doses of up to 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg caused significant pressor , as well as positive inotropic and chronotropic , effects on the heart which were abolished by adrenergic blocking agents .
the cardiovascular responses possibly were elicited by a central mechanism in contrast to the peripheral inhibitory action of strychnine on the sympathetic system .
diazepam caused a marked attenuation of the pressor response with only slight changes on the heart .
a combination of diazepam and propranolol would appear to be a useful therapy in cases of strychnine poisoning showing marked cardiovascular excitation .
evaluation of the permanent sympathectomy produced by the administration of guanethidine to adult rats .
the administration of guanethidine to adult rats has been shown by morphological criteria to destroy sympathetic neurons .
the objective of this study was to evaluate by biochemical and functional criteria the degree and permanence of this sympathectomy .
young adult male rats ( 260-300 g ) were injected with saline ( controls ) or with guanethidine for 5 weeks .
the status of the sympathetic nervous system in the animals was evaluated 1 , 3 and 6 to 7 months after cessation of treatment .
seven months after cessation of treatment ; the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in the superior cervical ganglia of treated animals was greatly reduced , as were the norepinephrine levels in peripheral tissues .
the concentration of epinephrine and the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in adrenals were not different from controls at any of the times studied .
norepinephrine concentrations in several areas of the central nervous system were unchanged .
increases in blood pressure in response to stimulation of the sympathetic vasomotor outflow in the pithed rat preparation were markedly and permanently reduced in guanethidine-treated animals .
isolated intestinal nerve-muscle preparations from guanethidine-treated animals usually contracted in response to nerve stimulation , rather than relaxing as in controls .
the response to stimulation of the hypogastric nerve in vas deferens preparations was reduced 1 month after cessation of treatment .
the responses of the vas deferens from guanethidine-treated and control animals were the same 7 months after treatment despite a 93 % reduction in norepinephrine concentration .
the data demonstrate that the administration of guanethidine to adult rats produces a marked and permanent destruction of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system .
mechanism of action of quinidine on squid axon membranes .
the mechanism of action of quinidine on squid axons has been examined by means of voltage clamp and internal perfusion techniques .
when applied either externally or internally , quinidine hcl suppresses both sodium and potassium conductance increases , the effect on the former accounting for the observed decrease in action potential .
the potassium conductance in quinidine undergoes a marked inactivation in a manner dependent upon the membrane potential and time , accounting for the observed prolongation of the terminal falling phase of the action potential .
quinidine methiodide exhibits the effect similar to that of quinidine hcl only when applied internally .
the dissociation constants of quinidine in suppressing the sodium conducting system are estimated to be 2.4 x 10 ( -4 ) and 4.0 x 10 ( -4 ) m for quinidine hcl and methiodide , respectively .
the dissociation constant of quinidine in suppressing the potassium-conducting system decreases with increasing step depolarization .
when applied externally to the intact axons , quinidine hcl is more effective at external ph 8.6 than at 7.3 .
when perfused internally , quinidine hcl is more effective at internal ph 7.0 than at 8.0 , and the potency is related to the calculated internal concentration of the charged form rather than that of the uncharged form .
these results lead to the conclusion that quinidine hcl penetrates the nerve membrane in the uncharged form , is ionized in the axon and blocks the sodium and potassium conductances primarily in the charged form .
thus , quinidine and local anesthetics share some features in the terms of the site of action and active form .
barbiturates block calcium uptake by stimulated and potassium-depolarized rat sympathetic ganglia .
the effects of two barbiturates on calcium uptake by sympathetic ganglia have been examined .
sodium pentobarbital ( 0.4-0.75 mm ) and sodium thiopental ( 0.3 mm ) block the preganglionic stimulation-induced uptake of 45ca by rat superior cervical ganglia but not action potential conduction in the presynaptic axons .
the ganglionic-blocking agent , tetraethylammonium , does not inhibit stimulation-induced ca uptake and does not prevent the blocking effect of thiopental .
this effect is therefore probably presynaptic .
postassium-rich media also stimulate ca uptake by the ganglia , and this effect is markedly inhibited by pentobarbital .
since the k stimulation effect is also observed in deafferented ganglia but not in guanethidine-denervated ganglia , this effect is probably associated primarily with postsynaptic elements .
in sum , the data suggest that the barbiturates inhibit ca permeability changes in both pre- and postsynaptic neurons .
mechanism of action of pentagastrin and acetylcholine on the longitudinal muscle of the canine antrum .
1. electrical and mechanical activities of the longtitudinal muscle of the dog antrum were recorded with the double sucrose-gap technique .
2. the muscle exhibited spontaneous action potentials which consisted of a spike-like potential which , after a brief and partial repolarization , was followed by a negative-going , plateau-type potential .
in 97 % of the preparations , no tension changes were produced by spontaneous action potentials .
3. tetrodotoxin , atropine , alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor antagonists , and h1 and h2 receptor blocking agents had no effect on the action potential .
it was concluded that the action potential was myogenic in origin .
4. the mean frequency of the action potential at 37+/- 0.5 degrees c was 1.0/min+/-0.06 ( s.e. of mean , n=92 ) and the mean duration 7.1+/-0.2 sec ( s.e. of mean , n=11 ) .
5. steady depolarizing current increased whereas hyperpolarizing current decreased the frequency of the action potential .
6. length-tension relations were studied .
in twelve strips , the average resting , passive , tension at lo was 570 mg .
the active force of isometric contraction produced by acetylcholine increased with strip length up to a maximum , then decreased wtih further increased in length .
there were no mechanical responses to pentagastrin .
7. pentagastrin had two sites of action .
on smooth muscle , it increased the frequency of the action potential in a dose dependent fashion .
threshold concentraions ranged from 2x10-14 to 10-11m .
the ed50 was 2x10-10m .
the maximum response , 5.4/min , was reached at 10-8m .
pentagastrin also released acetylcholine from intramural cholinergic nerves .
8. pentagastrin reduced the amplitude and duration of the action potential .
an alkyl etherase in rat liver .
1. diethyl ether , which is known to be partly metabolized in vivo , has been found to show an o2 uptake with the rat liver microsomal membranes ; a similar reaction is given with other short chain aliphatic ethers , isoproply and n-butyl ether .
2. the `` etherase '' reaction is optimal at ph 7.2-7.4 and is not accompanied by an increased formation of malondialdehyde .
3. when coa is added to the microsomes together with a source of oxaloacetate and the consensing enzyme synthase , the etherase present forms citrate from diethyl ether , indicating an acetylation of coa , which then enters the citric acid cycle .
4. similarly to 3 , fluorocitrate is formed from methyl fluoroethyl ether .
5. differing from plasmalogens , a tetrahydropteridine does not have to be added as a co-factor .
proceedings : the actions of 4-aminopyridine on the delayed potassium current in skeletal muscle fibres .
micro-electrode measurement of the internal ph of crab muscle fibres .
the internal ph of crab muscle fibres was measured using recessed-tip ph-sensitive micro-electrodes .
immediately following electrode penetration the mean internal ph was 7-21 +/- 0-02 ( s.e. of mean ) and the mean membrane potential was -64-9 +/- 0-6 mv ( s.e. of mean ) .
if h+ ions were passively distributed across the fibre membrane the internal ph would have been 6-39 .
2. the internal ph tended to rise before stabilizing at a mean value of 7-27 +/- 0-02 ( s.e. of mean ) .
the difference between immediate and stabilized values is highly significant and suggests acid injury on electrode penetration .
3. changing the membrane potential or external ph had only small , slow effects on internal ph .
4. external co2 caused a large and rapid decrease in internal ph .
with low concentrations of co2 , the effect was dependent on the initial ph as predicted by the law of mass action .
during a long exposure to 2-65 % co2 at ph 7-5 , the internal ph returned slowly to its previous value , suggesting active transport of h+ ( or oh- or hco3- ) ions across the fibre membrane .
5. the internal buffering power calculated from the response to 2-65 % co2 was 47-3 +/- 2-8 slykes ( m-equiv h+/ph unit per l. ) ( s.e. of mean ) .
[ adrenergic and cholinergic control of oxytocin release evoked by vaginal , vagal and mammary stimulation in lactating rats ( author's transl ) ] .
1. the amounts of oxytocin released during ferguson and vago-pituitary reflexes are estimated by measurements of intramammary pressure .
for the milk-ejection reflex , the gain in weight of the young over a period of 30 minutes is taken as an indirect index of the release of oxytocin .
2. antagonists of specific cholinoceptors and adrenoceptors were injected into the third ventricle in order to delineate the role of the mediators and receptors in the control of oxytocin release .
3. the results suggest that three reflexes have a specific chemical transmission since : a ) the ferguson reflex is inhibited by the drugs that only block alpha and beta adrenoceptors .
b ) the vago-pituitary reflex is inhibited by the drugs that block alpha and beta adrenoceptors and muscarinic cholinoceptors .
c ) the milk-ejection reflex is inhibited by the drugs that block alpha adrenoceptors and muscarinic and nicotinic cholinoceptors .
proteins in the luminal fluid from the bovine oviduct .
oviducal fluid was collected by cannulation from four cows and by irrigation from fifteen slaughtered cows .
the proteins in the fluid were examined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at ph 4-5 and ph 8-9 , isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide , immunodiffusion , immunoelectrophoresis , affinity chromatography and gel filtration .
the macromolecular components found were mainly serum proteins but small amounts of other proteins were detected in oestrous and dioestrous samples by electrophoresis at ph 8-9 following fractionation of the fluid by gel filtration or affinity chromatography .
small amounts of cathodically migrating proteins were detected directly by electrophoresis at ph 4-5 in dioestrous samples but not in oestrous samples .
determination of glycosidase activities revealed that the levels at oestrus were similar to the levels detected in serum .
at dioestrus , the activities of b-n-acetylgalactosaminidase and beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase were elevated .
boar seminal zinc-precipitable protein and the haemagglutinin .
about 30 % of boar seminal plasma nitrogen is maximally precipitated at room temperature by 6 to 10 mm zinc in citrate solution at ph 8 .
a rise in the total nitrogen precipitated by 1 to 6 mm zinc is accompanied by a fall in the haemagglutinin titre of the supernatant fluid .
at 6 mm zinc addition , 95 % of the haemagglutinin is precipitated , but much of this is recoverable by re-solution of the zinc precipitate .
protein profile studies by gel-filtration chromatography of the zinc precipitate solution reveals a mixture of proteins , some of which are not by themselves zinc-precipitable .
effect of season on some characteristics of stallion semen .
season had a pronounced effect upon seminal ph and refractometer 'protein ' , total carbohydrate , dry weight , total n2 and lactic acid in seminal plasma of first and second ejaculates .
in addition , total seminal volume , spermatozoa per ml and per ejaculate , non-protein sulphhydryl and glycerylphosphorylcholine of second ejaculates were also influenced .
there was a season difference in the concentrations of lactic acid in spermatozoa from first and in total n2 from spermatozoa in second ejaculates .
the effects of season on seminal plasma were greater than those on spermatozoa .
spermatozoa in first ejaculates were less affected by season than those in secons ejaculates .
this differential effect on first and second ejaculates was generally true of all seminal characteristics .
influence of ejaculation frequency of stallions on characteristics of semen and output of spermatozoa .
approximately 1 week was required to stabilize the extragonadal sperm reserves in stallions ejaculated daily for 10 weeks .
the true daily sperm output of a stallion was equal to the mean daily sperm output of seven ejaculates +/- 1-35 x 10 ( 9 ) spermatozoa .
mean concentrations of spermatozoa/ml and number of spermatozoa/ejaculate were higher ( p less than 0-01 ) for x1 and x3/week ejaculation frequencies than for a x6/week frequency .
sperm output/week was nearly identical for a x6/week frequency .
sperm output/week was nearly identical for the x3 and x6 frequencies and higher ( p less than 0-01 ) than the x1 frequency .
increase of ejaculation frequency from one to two ejaculates/day twice weekly significantly ( p less than 0-01 ) raised the output of spermatozoa/week .
gel-free semen volume , spermatozoa/ml , and number of spermatozoa/ejaculate were higher ( p less than 0-01 ) in the first , than in the second , ejaculate .
collection of semen on alternate days would be a practical ejaculation frequency for inseminating mares .
two ejaculates collected twice a week would be a practical ejaculation frequency for long-term storage of stallion semen .
transfer of gases and metabolites in the equine placenta : a comparison with other species .
mares and fetuses with indwelling catheters in the umbilical and uterine vessels have been used to monitor transplacental blood gas tensions , ph , o2 affinities and the concentration of various metabolites in fetal and maternal blood during late gestation .
measurements of umbilical and uterine blood flows and arterio-venous differences enabled the uptake of o2 and glucose by the fetus and the uterus to be estimated .
the present findings are compared with those from other species in comparable conditions .
androgens and oestrogens in normal and cryptorchid stallions .
total androgens , testosterone and total oestrogens were measured in twenty-one intact , nine unilaterally cryptorchid , three bilaterally cryptorchid stallions and four geldings .
total oestrogens were significantly higher ( p less than 0-005 ) and total androgens significantly lower ( p less than 0-05 ) in the bilateral cryptorchid compared to other groups .
there was a significant ( p less than 0-025 ) day and night variation in total androgen levels .
thyroidectomized and intact animals showed a marked decrease in total androgen as well as testosterone levels during the winter period thus showing an effect of season on androgenic function of the testis .
disappearance rate of total and androgens following castration was extremely rapid and levels were undectable within 12 hr .
sexual stimulation appeared to increase total androgen levels .
testosterone , androstenedione , dihydrotestosterone , androstandiols , and androstenediol were identified in spermatic vein blood .
dihydrotestosterone was measured in fluid from the cauda epididymidis .
some aspects of the reproductive endocrinology of the stallion and cryptorchid .
hypertension in pregnancy : an invitational symposium .
prognostic factors in polyarteritis .
the clinical course of 40 patients with polyarteritis was reviewed to determine prognostic factors and response to treatment .
the first three months were the most critical to survival .
survivorship was 57 per cent at five years .
older age of onset , involvement of skeletal muscle and presence of peripheral neuropathy weighted against a satisfactory outcome .
cutaneous vasculitis was associated with a more benign course .
myocardial disease , central nervous system involvement , or hypertension were not invariably poor prognostic factors .
muscle biopsies , even in the absence of clinical involvement , were a useful diagnostic procedure , and renal angiograms were found to be a valuable alternative to renal biopsy .
an unequivocal distinction on clinical and histopathologic criteria could not be made among polyarteritis nodosa , hypersentitivity angiitis , and allergic granulomatosis .
australia antigenemia occurred in six per cent of patients .
although evaluation of therapy was difficult , data from this study did not show a superiority of high vs. low dosage of corticosteroids in suppressing active disease .
importance of the aromatic ring in adrenergic amines .
2. synthesis and adrenergic activity of some nonaromatic six- and eight-membered ring analogs of beta-phenylethanolamine .
the synthesis of beta-phenylethanolamine analogs in which the phenyl ring is replaced by cyclohexyl , cyclohexen-4-yl , cyclooctyl , cyclooctenyl , cycloocta-1,3-dien-2-yl , cycloocta-1,5-dienyl , and cyclooctatetraenyl was accompanied by conversion of the corresponding aldehydes to the cyanohydrins followed by reduction with lithium aluminum hydride .
a preparatively useful synthesis of 1-formylcyclooctatetraene is described utilizing the photocycloaddition of methyl propiolate to benzene followed by reduction to the alcohol and oxidation with mno2 .
all compounds , as their hydrochloride salts , exhibited indirect adrenergic activity on the rat vas deferens .
on the reserpinized rat vas deferens all compounds potentiated the effects of exogenous norepinephrine .
the results are in agreement with the conclusion that the more saturated the ring moiety , the greater the affinity for the amine uptake site of the vas deferens and suggest that there is no important interaction between the drug and this uptake site that involves pi-complex formation .
conformationally restricted analogs of histamine h1 receptor antagonists : trans and cis-1-benzyl-3-dimethylamino-6-phenylpiperidine .
the syntheses of trans- and cis-1-benzyl-3-dimethylamino-6-phenylpiperidine ( 1 and 2 ) are described .
compounds 1 and 2 were found to be inhibitors to histamine , acetylcholine , and barium chloride induced contractions of the isolated guinea pig ileum .
compounds 1 and 2 do not exhibit appreciable stereoselectivity in their ability to inhibit smooth muscle contractions .
the cis compound 2 is a more effective inhibitor of histamine n-methyltransferase than the trans isomer 1 .
synthesis and adrenoreceptor blocking action of aziridinium ions derived from phenoxybenzamine and dibenamine .
crystalline perchlorate salts of aziridinium ions derived from phenoxybenzamine and dibenamine were prepared .
both aziridinium ions were tested on the rat vas deferens and found to possess alpha-adrenergic potencies which were nearly identical with those of the parent compounds .
the hydrolysis rates of phenoxybenzamine and dibenamine aziridinium ions ( 2a , b ) in physiological medium were found to be 6.0 4 x 10 ( -4 ) and 8.35 x 10 ( -4 ) sec-1 , respectively .
the rates of cyclization of the parent amines to 2a and 2b in aqueous medium were 1.9 x 10 ( -2 ) and 7.2 x 10 ( -3 ) sec-1 , respectively .
the potencies and kinetic profiles indicate that the aziridinium ion is the only active species in alpha-adrenergic blockade .
moreover , differences in potency between phenoxybenzamine and dibenamine appear to be exclusively to a difference in receptor affinity rather than to a difference in intrinsic alkylating ability .
the atpase activity of cardiac myosin from failing and hypertropied hearts .
prebiotic peptide-formation in the solid state .
ii .
reaction of glycine with adenosine 5'-triphosphate and p1 , p2-diadenosine-pyrophosphate .
when a solution containing gly-n-pa and imidazole is evaporated to dryness and then maintained at a temperature between 65 degrees c and 100 degrees c , high yields of appa and obligoglycines are obtained .
we believe that impa is formed first , and then activates the carboxyl group of glycine or gly-a-pa .
if glycine , atp or appa , and imidazole are heated together in the solid state , impa is formed and atp , or indirectly from imidazole and gly-n-pa .
next the carboxyl group or glycine is activated by the impa formed in situ .
the subsequent reactions of activated glycine leads to the formation of oligoglycines and the 2 ' ( 3 ' ) -glycylester of pa .
under plausible prebiobic conditions , good yields of oligoglycines up to the octamer can be obtained from glycine , atp and imidazole .
prebiotic peptide-formation in the solid state .
iii .
condensation reactions of glycine in solid state mixtures containing inorganic polyphosphates .
the reactions of glycine with inorganic polyphosphates in the solid state have been studied .
the formation of peptides up to the decamer occurs at moderate temperatures ( r.t.-100 degrees c ) in the presence of imidazole and magnesium chloride .
if adenosine 5 ' -monophosphate is added to the reaction mixture , 2 ' ( 3 ' ) -o-glycyl adenosine 5'-monophosphate is also obtained .
these reactions could have occurred on the primitive earth .
the prebiotic synthesis of deoxthymidine oligonucleotides .
ii .
comparison of condensing agents .
a reaction which oligomerizes nucleotides under possible prebiotic conditions has been characterized .
nucleoside monophosphate in the presence of cyanamide at acid ph condenses to form dithymideine pyrophosphate and phosphodiester bonded compounds .
imidazole compounds and activated precursors such as nucleoside triphosphate are not necessary for this ologomerization reaction which produces primarily cyclic ologonucleotides .
formation of nucleoside 5'-polyphosphates from nucleotides and trimetaphosphate .
when solutions of nucleoside 5'-phosphates and trimetaphosphate are dried out at room temperature , nucleoside 5'-polyphosphates are formed .
the mg++ ion shows a superior catalytic function in this reaction when compared with other divalent metal ions .
starting with nucleoside 5'-phosphates , mg++ and trimetaphosphate , the predominant products in the nucleoside 5'-polyphosphate series pnn are p4n , p7n and p10n .
nucleoside 5'-diphosphates yield p5n and p8n , nucleoside 5'-triphosphates give p6n and p9n .
the prebiological relevance of these reactions is discussed .
on the possible role of organic melanoidin polymers as matrices for prebiotic activity .
one of the major diagenetic pathways of organic matter in recent sediments involves the condensation of cellular constituents , particularly amino acids and sugars , into insoluble melanoidin-type polymers .
these polymers consist mainly of humic and fulvic acids and make up the major part of the organic carbon reservoir in recent sediments .
we suggest that a similar set of reactions between abiotically formed amino acids and sugars , and more generally between aldehydes and amines , occurred on a large scale in the prebiotic hydrosphere .
the rapid formation of this insoluble polymeric material would have removed the bulk of the dissolved organic carbon from the primitive oceans and would thus have prevented the formation of an `` organic soup '' .
melanoidin polymers have several properties which make them attractive hypothetical precursors of contemporary oxidation-reduction coenzymes : 1. they contain heterocyclic nitrogen compounds similar to the nitrogenous bases ; 2. they contain a high concentration of stable free radicals ; and 3. they tend to concentrate those heavy metals which play prominent roles in contemporary enzymic redox processes .
the prebiotic formation of similar polymers could , therefore , have provided the starting point for a basic class of biochemical reactions .
we suggest that the prebiotic scenario involved chemical and protoenzymic reactions at the sediment-ocean interface in relatively shallow waters and under conditions not much different from those of the recent environment .
hemoglobin function in the vertebrates : an evolutionary model .
comparative data on quaternary structure , cooperativity , bohr effect and regulation by organic phosphates are reviewed for vertebrate hemoglobins .
a phylogeny of hemoglobin function in the vertebrates is deduced .
it is proposed that from the monomeric hemoglobin of the common ancestor of vertebrates , a deoxy dimer , as seen in the lamprey , could have originated with a single amino acid substitution .
the deoxy dimer has a bohr effect , cooperativity and a reduced oxygen affinity compared to the monomer .
one , or two , additional amino acid substitutions could have resulted in the origin of a tetrameric deoxy hemoglobin which dissociated to dimers on oxygenation .
gene duplication , giving incipient alpha and beta genes , probably preceded the origin of a tetrameric oxyhemoglobin .
the origin of an organic phosphate binding site on the tetrameric hemoglobin of an early fish required only one , or two , amino acid substitutions .
atp was the first organic phosphate regulator of hemoglobin function .
the binding of atp by hemoglobin may have caused the original elevation in the concentration of atp in the red blood cells by relieving end product inhibition of atp synthesis .
the switch from regulation of hemoglobin function by atp to regulation by dpg may have been a consequence of the curtailment of oxidative phosphorylation in the red blood cell .
the basic mechanisms by which atp and dpg concentrations can respond to strss on the oxygen transport system were present before the origin of an organic phosphate binding site on hemoglobin .
a switch from atp regulation to ip5 regulation occurred in the common ancestor of birds .
aminoacyl transfer from an adenylate anhydride to polyribonucleotides .
imidazole catalysis of phenylalanyl transfer from phenylalanine adenylate anhydride to the hydroxyl groups of homopolyribonucleotides was investigated as a chemical model of the biochemical aminoacylation of trna .
imidazole catalyzed transfer of phenylalanine to poly ( u ) increases from ph 6.5 to 7.7 and decreases above ph 7.7 .
at ph 7.7 approximately 10 % of the phenylalanyl residues are transferred to poly ( u ) .
at ph 7.1 , transfer to poly ( u ) was five times as great as to poly ( a ) and transfer to a poly ( a ) poly ( u ) double helix was negligible .
at ph 7.1 approximately 45 mole percent linkages to poly ( u ) were monomeric phenylalanine ; the remainder of the linkages were peptides of phenylalanine .
the number of linkages and their lability to base and neutral hydroxylamine indicates that phenylalanine and its peptides are attached as esters to the 2 ' hydroxyl groups throughout poly ( u ) and the 2 ' ( 3 ' ) hydroxyl groups at the terminus of poly ( u ) .
these results do model the contemporary process of aminoacyl transfer to trna and continue to suggest that a histidine residue is in the active site of aminoacyl-trna-synthetases .
hybrid-versus-parental strain reaction .
i. comparative mortality in allogenetic and parental strain male and female mice .
lethally irradiated male and female hybrids , parental strains , and the third party strain a mice were inoculated with reciprocal hybrid marrow from donors of the same sex .
a graft-versus-host reaction was produced against h-y antigens of reciprocal hybrids .
although the late mortality in inbred strain males was generally greater than that of females , without further tests this difference was not automatically attributable to an x or a y chromosome disparity .
hybrids did not recognize the qualitative difference in antigenicity of their reciprocals , but they were able to recognize the quantitatively greater antigenicity of their parental strains , and a hybrid-versus-parental strain reaction occurred .
the graft-versus-host reaction in the third party strain a mice was significantly more severe than that produced by hybrid marrow in their reciprocal hybrid recipients , but significantly less severe than that produced in the parental strains .
the relationship between antigenicity and responsiveness was such that the severity of the graft-versus-host reactions masked the maternal influences observed with other reciprocal hybrids .
graft versus leukemia .
vi .
adoptive immunotherapy in combination with chemoradiotherapy for spontaneous leukemia-lymphoma in akr mice .
a three-step treatment plan incorporating adoptive immunotherapy and chemoradiotherapy was used to treat akr ( h-2k ) mice bearing spontaneous leukemia-lymphoma ( sll ) .
1 ) leukemic mice were treated with chemoradiotherapy for immunosuppression and leukemia cytoreduction .
2 ) to introduce a graft-versus-leukemia reaction against residual malignant cells , the immunosuppressed akr mice were given immunocompetent cells from h-2 mismatched dba/2 ( h-2d ) donors .
3 ) to `` rescue '' the akr hosts from incipient graft-versus-host disease , the mismatched dba/2 cells were killed with combination chemotherapy , and cells from allogeneic h-2 matched rf ( h-2k ) donors were administered to restore hematopoiesis .
leukemic akr mice thus treated had significant prolongation of their median survival time and a higher 60-day survival rate post treatment than did untreated controls , chemoradiotherapy controls , or control mice that received chemoradiotherapy plus cells from syngeneic donors .
therefore , adoptive immunotherapy may be useful as an adjunct to conventional therapy for treatment of sll in akr mice .
a study of tobacco carcinogenesis .
xiii .
tumor-promoting subfractions of the weakly acidic fraction .
the weakly acidic fraction ( waf ) of cigarette smoke particulate matter was fractioned by silica get chromatography .
we assayed the various primary subfractions for potential tumor-promoting activity by measuring the incorporation of tritiated thymidine into mouse epidermal dna as induced by these subfractions .
based on these results and on chemical composition , the primary subfractions , were then combined into four major subfractions and tested on initiated mouse skin for tumor-promoting activity by long-term application .
two of these subfractions ( 40 % of waf ) were inactive , whereas the other two ( 18 and 35 % of waf ) showed tumor-promoting activity .
the two active portions were then further chromatographed and tested by the short-term bioassay .
some major components of the resulting active fractions included alkyl-2-cyclopenten-2-ol-1-ones , catechols , hydroquinone , fatty acids , and 3-hydroxypyridines .
among these components , catechol , hydroquinone , 3-hydroxypyridine , 6-methyl-3-hydroxypyridine , linolenic acid , and linoleic acid were inactive as tumor promoters in the experimental animal .
the activity of the alkyl-2-cyclopenten-2-ol-1-ones is unknown .
other components remain to be identified .
metabolic characteristics of cells infected with a herpesvirus of turkeys .
chicken embryo fibroblasts infected with the nononcogenic herpesvirus of turkeys ( hvt ) displayed an increased rate of glucose uptake , a pronounced alteration of the ph of the medium , and an increased production of lactic acid when compared to mock-infected cultures .
objective estimates of cytopathology ( quantifiable neutral red uptake and cell protein determination ) showed that cell deterioration was a slow process in hvt-infected cells when compared to infection by herpes simplex virus .
experiments with irradiated host cells demonstrated that hvt required functional cell dna for replication .
the inactivation of the necessary host cell function displayed multihit kinetics .
in agreement with data on other herpesviruses , hvt damaged by uv light could be photoreactivated in chick cells .
the results indicate that hvt shares biologic properties in common with other herpes and transforming viruses .
control of mercury pollution .
when a 203ng ( no3 ) 2 solution was kept at 25 degrees c in glass or polypropylene containers , 50 and 80 % of original radioactivity was adsorbed to the containers ' walls after 1 and 4 days , respectively .
however , no loss in radioactivity was observed if the solution was supplemented with hgcl as carrier ( 100 mug hg2+/ml ) and stored in either container for 13 days .
when 203hg2+ was dissolved in glucose basal salt broth with added carrier , levels of 203hg2+ in solution ( kept in glass ) decreased to 80 and 70 % of original after 1 and 5 days and decreased even more if stored in polypropylene ( 60 and 40 % of original activity after 1 and 4 days , respectively ) .
in the absence of carrier , decreases of 203hg2+ activities in media stored in either container were more pronounced due to chemisorption ( but ) not diffusion .
the following factors affecting the removal of mercurials from aqueous solution stored in glass were examined : type and concentration of adsorbent ( fiber glass and rubber powder ) ; ph ; pretreatment of the rubber ; and the form of mercury used .
rubber was equally effective in the adsorption of organic and inorganic mercury .
the ph of the aqueous 203hg2+ solution was not a critical factor in the rate of adsorption of mercury by the rubber .
in addition , the effect of soaking the rubber in water for 18 hr did not show any statistical difference when compared with nontreated rubber .
it can be concluded that rubber is a very effective adsorbent of mercury and , thus , can be used as a simple method for control of mercury pollution .
enzymic deacetylation of carcinogenic arylacetamides by tissue microsomes of the dog and other species .
the relative ability of arylacetamide deacetylase enzyme systems of dog liver to carry out the deacetylation of the carcinogens , 4-acetylaminobiphenyl , 2-acetylaminofluorene , and 2-acetylaminaphthalene , was examined .
the arylacetamides were incubated with unfortified dog liver microsomes , and enzyme activity ( nmol arylamine/mg protein/hr ) was estimated by colorimetric quantitation of the resulting arylamines .
the dog liver enzyme system displayed characteristics similar to those described for the rodent liver enzyme system in that enzyme activity was greatest in liver tissue , was localized in the microsomal subcellular fraction , required no cofactors , and was inhibited by heat , sodium fluoride , and thiol reagents .
in five replicate assays , the relative rates of deacetylation were about 10 , 6 , and 1 with 4-acetylaminobiphenyl ( 84.8 +/- 12.4 ) , 2-acetylaminofluorene ( 52.5 +/- 5.1 ) , and 2-acetylaminonaphthalene ( 8.8 +/- 3.3 ) , respectively .
as a canine urinary bladder carcinogen , 4-acetylaminobiphenyl is considered more potent than 2-acetylaminofluroene , while 2-acetylaminonaphthalene is devoid of detectable carcinogenic activity , despite the fact that 2-aminoaphthalene is a well-established canine urinary bladder carcinogen .
removal of the acetyl group may be a requirement for urinary bladder carcinogenesis ; accordingly , the present studies demonstrate the appearance of a direct relationship between dog liver deacetylase enzyme specificity and urinary bladder susceptibility to these carcinogenic arylacetamides .
renal chromium accumulation and its relationship to chromium-induced nephrotoxicity .
this report is an attempt to study the renal handling of chromium under in vitro conditions and to relate this to the actions of the ion in the production of nephrotoxicity .
renal slice techniques were employed in these studies and were used to examine the effects of chromium on various renal transport processes .
in addition , the accumulation of chromium by the renal tissue has also been studied .
marked accumulation by renal cortical slices of the rat was observed when 51cr-labeled chromate or dichromate was added to the bathing solution .
some metabolic inhibitors interfered with this uptake process ; in addition , some substrates metabolized by renal tissue reduced the accumulation of 51cr .
the use of [ 51cr ] dichromate and [ 51cr ] -chromate , as well as alterations in the bathing solution ph , indicated that in the rat chromium can interfere with renal transport processes , but that the oxidation state of this metal is not important .
on the other hand , in the rabbit a greater interference with 51cr uptake was noted at lower bathing solution phs .
this is interpreted to mean that chromate is the effective inhibitor in this species .
[ 2 cases of perineal ectopic testis ] .
bacterial shock .
sodium bicarbonate administration during cardiac arrest .
effect on arterial ph pco2 , and osmolality .
arterial ph , pco2 , and osmolality were determined serially during cardiac resuscitation in patients and in dogs , with and without administration of sodium bicarbonate .
these studies demonstrate that ( 1 ) in the absence of preexisting acidosis , severe acidosis can be prevented by adequate ventilation alone ; ( 2 ) sodium bicarbonate administration results in a significant rise in arterial pco2 , which parallels the rise in ph despite adequate ventilation ; ( 3 ) during prolonged cardiac and resuscitation , there is a rise in arterial osmolality that is accentuated by sodium bicarbonate .
these studies suggest that sodium bicarbonate should not be used during resuscitation ( 1 ) in the absence of effective hyperventilation or where carbon dioxide removal is inadequate despite adequate ventilation , ( 2 ) in repeated doses , without confirmation of substantial acidosis , or ( 3 ) when cardiac arrest has been of brief duration and preexisting acidosis is unlikely .
these studies also point to the need for a reappraisal of other buffers that do not elevate the arterial pco2 .
[ physiology and pharmacology of neuromuscular junctions ] .
[ pharmacology and clinical application of muscle relaxants ] .
[ the hormone producing tumors ( author's transl ) ] .
sarcotubular anomalous rectification of frog sartorius muscle .
the membrane site responsible for anomalous rectification was determined in frog sartorius muscle fibers .
the total current-voltage relation of glycerol-treated fibers which represents mainly the properties of the sarcolemma was linear for membrane potentials between about -90 and -50 mv .
thus moderate depolarization-induced anomalous rectification in intact fibers represents a property of the sarcotubular system .
the absence of slow hyperpolarization in glycerol-treated fibers was caused by the abolition of early conductance increase , and the sarcotubular system is responsible for the inward rectifier .
picrotoxin selectively inhibited both moderate depolarization-induced anomalous rectification and hyperpolarization-induced early conductance increase .
this suggests that the same component in the sarcotubular system is responsible for these conductance changes .
the inhibition with picrotoxin of moderate depolarization-induced anomalous rectification suggests the possibility that it is caused by an electrogenic effect rather than a decrease in k conductance .
a sarcolemmal hyperpolarization-activated slow conductance increase was revealed .
properties of sarcolemmal delayed rectification in glycerol-treated fibers of frog sartorius muscle .
total current-voltage relations were analyzed on nine glycerol-treated surface fibers of frog sartorius muscles in tetrodotoxin-containing isotonic normal ringer solution .
the results indicate that delayed rectification occurs in the sarcolemma on large depolarization and that delayed rectification is only partially inactivated during 1 sec of depolarization and not converted into anomalous rectification .
the time to peak , the time course of inactivation and the potassium activation potential determined in glycerol-treated fibers were comparable to those analyzed previously in intact fibers .
the value of the conductance increase during delayed rectification in glycerol-treated fibers appeared to be smaller than that in intact fibers .
sarcolemmal slow conductance increase of frog sartorius fibers during hyperpolarization .
the properties of the hyperpolarization-activated sarcolemmal slow conductance increase in frog sartorius muscle fibers have been investigated using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt ( edta ) and propionate ringer solution .
more than 1 sec was required for maximum activation of the sarcolemmal slwo conductance increase .
it is suggested that , although the sarcolemmal slow conductance increase was affected by deterioration , the conductance increase is not a direct product of deterioration but it represents a property of the sarcolemma which is encountered in physiological range .
the sarcolemmal conductance increase was rather insensitive to the change in ph of ringer solution .
it is inferred that the absence of bellying in newly penetrated intact fibers at neutral and alkaline phs is caused mainly by the shunting effect of large parallel conductance .
apparent augmentation with edta of the sarcolemmal conductance increase infers that ca ions affect the conductance increase .
the conductance increase occurred also in the edta-containing cl-deficient solution .
the sarcolemmal slow conductance increase has been compared with the change in cl conductance reported by hutter and warner , and warner .
effects of antidepressant drugs on amygdaloid after-discharge in rats .
effects of antidepressant drugs on the amygdaloid after-discharge induced by stimulating the amygdala in rats implanted with chronic electrodes , were investigated in correlation with anti-muricidal effects as well as neurotoxicity .
tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline , imipramine and nortriptyline markedly depressed both after-discharge and muricide at doses smaller than neurotoxic doses .
the effect of pf-257 was also the same as tricyclic antidepressants .
on the other hand , methamphetamine and pipradrol blocked the muricide at doses smaller than neurotoxic doses without depressing the amygdaloid after-discharge .
major tranquilizers , chlorpromazine and clozapine depressed both after-discharge and muricide only at doses larger than those which impaired rotarod performance .
haloperidol , on the contrary , depressed the after-discharge without selectively blocking the muricide .
minor tranquilizers , diazepam and chlordiazepoxide did not block the muricide at doses smaller than neurotoxic doses , although they showed a marked depression of the after-discharge .
effects of several beta-blockers on blood pressure in the rat .
effects of practolol , alprenolol and pindolol on blood pressure in the rat were studied .
also effects of these three beta-blocking agents on blood pressure and heart rate in spinal rats during adrenaline infusion were studied and compared with those of propranolol .
the beta-blocking agents produced a sustained pressor action in the rat , and in the spinal rat infused with adrenaline .
the magnitude of the pressor action induced by the beta-blockers was in the following order : pindolol larger than or equal to propranolol larger than or equal to alprenolol greater than practolol .
minimum doses of these beta-blockers required to cause a pressor action in the spinal rat infused with adrenaline were in the following order ; practolol greater than alprenolol larger than or equal to propranolol larger than or equal to pindolol .
the magnitude of the pressor action produced by the same dose of these beta-blockers and minimum doses of these beta-blockers required to cause a pressor action in the spinal rat infused with adrenaline seemed to be roughly proportional to their beta-receptor blocking activities .
it was concluded that the minimum doses of these beta-blockers required to cause a pressor action and the magnitude of the pressor action induced by the beta-blockers in the spinal rat infused with adrenaline could be used to compare their beta-blocking activities and that practolol , a cardioselective beta-blocker , seems to block not only cardiac beta-receptor but to some extent also peripheral vascular beta-receptors .
the clinical use of dopamine in the treatment of shock .
dopamine is a direct-acting catecholamine with a short half-life that has many advantages in treating visceral hypoperfusion states such as shock and refractory heart failure .
unlike other inotropic drugs , dopamine directly dilates the mesenteric , renal , and cerebral vessels and redirects blood flow to essential viscera .
this dopaminergic effect is prominent with doses of 100-700 mug/min in adults and is attenuated by phenothiazines and haloperidol .
at doses of 700-1400 mug/min , dopamine also has a significant beta-adrenergic , inotropic effect , increasing myocardial contractility .
the inotropic effect is equivalent to that of isoproterenol , epinephrine , and norepinephrine , but tachycardia , tachyarrhythmias , and angina may be less frequent with dopamine .
in doses greater than 1400 mug/min , dopamine is a vasoconstrictor with pressor effects usually equivalent to that of norepinephrine .
dopamine dilates pupils , does not dilate bronchi , and does not shunt blood from viscera to skeletal muscles as does isoproterenol .
because dopamine increases myocardial contractility , selectively redistributes perfusion to essential viscera and allows a pharmacologic titration of effect , it is a logical first-choice catecholamine for treatment of shock and refractory heart failure .
[ adverse effects of drugs. 18. antihistaminic agents ] .
[ report of the icn council of national representatives ' meeting ] .
[ certain indicators of histamine and histidine metabolism in chronic coronary insufficiency ] .
[ certain problems of treatment of ischemic heart disease ] .
on the basis of extended personal experience and of the literature data , the authors give recommendations for differentiated rational drug therapy of different stages of ischaemic heart disease .
the results of a study of comparative efficacy of 15 coronary-active drugs used in 709 patients with ischaemic heart disease are presented along with their clinical pharmacology , side effects , indications and counterindications .
the conclusions were arrived at on the basis of an objective clinical and laboratory study of the effect of the drugs .
the methods of evaluation of the drug's efficacy and of the selection of patients for the administration of adequate therapy are described , which permits to use these recommendations for practical purposes .
some problems of the pathogenesis of ischaemic heart disease are discussed in terms of the selection of pathogenetic therapy .
[ stimulators of beta-adrenergic structures in treatment of ischemic heart disease ] .
the beneficial effect of stimulators of beta-adrenergic structures ( myophedrin on the haemodynamics and the inotropic function of the myocardium was demonstrated experimentally ( in 12 rabbits ) and clinically ( in 53 patients with ischaemic heart disease ) .
a positive effect of the treatment was noted in 45.5 % of those patients in whom ischaemic heart disease manifested itself in angina decubitus and angina of effort .
[ nonachlasine -- a new drug for treatment of ischemic heart disease ] .
data on the pharmacology of a new antianginal drug -- nonachlasine -- are presented .
nonachlasine was found to increase the blood flow intensively and for long periods of time , increasing the oxygen reserve of the myocardium , thus increasing the cardiac output and the contractile function of the heart .
the prevailing action of nonachlasine on the blood supply and the function of the myocardium seems to be the result of several mechanisms : decreasing resistance of the coronaries due to the activation of the beta2-adrenergic structures ; influence upon the extravascular factors of the regulation of the coronary circulation ( changes in the metabolism and cardiac activity due to the excitation of the beta-adrenergic structures ) .
the mechanism of the positive effect of nonachlasine upon the blood supply and function of the heart is connected with its action on the adrenergic processes .
the drug accumulates noradrenaline in the myocardium and increases the activity of phosphorilase-a .
this coincides in time with the increased blood supply and contractile capacity of the heart .
the beta-adrenoblocking agents prevent these effects .
it was postulated that the effect of nonachlasine in the blood supply and the activity of the heart is connected with its ability to utilize the energy reserve of the myocardium by way of switching over to the anaerobic way .
[ cordaron and nonachlasine in treatment of chronic coronary insufficiency ] .
in a double blind study of the clinical effect of cordaron conducted in 55 patients with chronic ischaemic heart disease a positive effect was obtained in 80.4 % of the cases , an effect of placebo-in 24.3 % .
cordaron was especially effective in patients with localized stenoses of the coronary arteries .
nonachlasine ( an activator of the cardiac beta-adrenergic receptors ) proved effective in 10 of 13 patients with chronic ischaemic heart disease .
[ effect of certain drugs , used in treatment of chronic coronary insufficiency , on adenosine metabolism ] .
it has been demonstrated that the study of the activity of 5'-nucleotidase and adenosine-desaminase permits to interpret the metabolism of adenosine .
curanthil , sustac and intensain influence the adenosine metabolism favouring an elevation of its content .
the therapeutic effect of obsidan is not conditioned by the `` adenosine '' metabolism .
renal response to short-term hypocapnia in man .
this study examines the renal response to moderate hyperventilation in healthy man .
eight men hyperventilated for 26 hr ( paco2 approximately 30 to 32 mm hg ) in normoxia ( barometric pressure , pb approximately 740 mm hg ) and hypobaric hypoxia ( pb approximately530 mm hg ) .
anaerobic samples of arterial blood and urine were studied at two-hour intervals .
plasma [ hco3- ] fell with time during sustained hypocapnia and after 26 hr was reduced 2.5 meq/liter , with plasma ph compensated approximately 60 % .
statistically significant changes in renal h+ handling were observed within the initial 2 hr of hyperventilation and were evident over the first 12 hr .
over 26 hr , mean total hco3-excretion in hypocapnia was 10.2 meq above control and mean total acid excretion ( uvta + uvnh4+ ) was 17.5 meq below control .
an increased urinary excretion of cations , especially sodium , accompanied the decrease in acid excretion .
plasma lactic acid accumulation was negligible .
we conclude that renal mechanisms contribute significantly and relatively quickly to plasma ph compensation during the early phase of adaptation to hypocapnia in man .
[ the influence of isoglaucon on the hydrodynamics and haemodynamics of the eye ( author's transl ) ] .
by animal experiments and clinically we could prove that isoglaucon instillation caused the decrease in iop due to both increase in outflow and reduction of humor secretion ; the iop decrease and changes in hydrodynamics being manifested more markedly in the fellow-eye .
as reoophthalmography demonstrated `` isoglaucon '' produced lumen narrowing in the anterior portion of the uveal tract .
`` isoglaucon '' was prescribed to 20 patients having open-angle-glaucoma , two hours after instillation the 23 decreased in 26 eyes ( of 28 ) by 9.3 +/- 1.0 mm hg .
when prescribed regularly `` isoglaucon '' raised the outflow facility coefficient from 0.10 +/- 0.01 to 0.20 +/-0.02 .
the secretion decreased from 2.0 +/- 0.2 to 0.9 +/- 0.15 .
thus , iop decrease after `` isoglaucon '' is accounted for by both improved outflow and reduction of aqueous humor secretion .
the `` isoglucon '' instillation produced a rather moderate decrease in the total arterial pressure , though no expected parallelism in arterial and intraocular pressure was marked .
[ the immediate effect of beta-isoket on the internal ocular pressure in patients with chronic simple glaucoma ( author's transl ) ] .
in 27 patients with non-compensated or medically compensated chronic simple glaucoma , the i.o.p. was measured after the administration of two tablets of beta-isoket ( which contain 5 mg isosorbiddinitrate and 40 mg bupranolol ) .
in none of the 54 eyes was the i.o.p. higher after administration of the drug .
on the contrary , the i.o.p. was siginificantly or highly significantly reduced for more than 2 hours , probably because of the beta-receptor-blocking component of the preparation .
[ determination of igm in serum after corneatransplantation ( author's transl ) ] .
by measuring the serum igm-level every fourth day after keratoplasty the primary immune response can be observed .
the extent of the graft's reaction corresponds with the fluctuation of igm .
[ model of an ecological system closed as regards gas metabolism and with a periodically working autotrophic component. i. conditions for stability of the atmospheric system ] .
the paper describes a semi-closed ecological system consisting of a man and a photosynthetic autotrophic component .
the conditions required to maintain the stability of the atmosphere in the system are described as applied to two alternating modes of the function of the autotrophic component .
these conditions express equal quantities of oxygen and carbon dioxide consumed and produced by the components of the system during any time period the length of which is the duration of the cycle of the system .
on this basis equations have been derived which help to identify the photosynthetic cultures that can be used as an autotrophic component in a closed man-sustaining life support system .
[ microbiological aspects of the performance of life support systems during prolonged operation ] .
the environmental control system using superoxides , sillicagels or synthetic ceolites is capable of purifying the atmosphere from microorganisms .
the air conditioning system is another means for air purification from microorganisms .
the possibility of microbial build-up and multiplication in the atmospheric condensate makes it necessary to assume that an air conditioning system may contribute to the transfer of conditionally pathogenic microorganisms in a space cabin .
the reliability of a life support system may degrade due to an accumulation of microorganisms in its components .
further extensive studies are needed to clarify this problem .
[ toxic properties of regenerated water containing methyl alcohol ] .
the experiments carried out on white male rats have shown no significant changes in the animals that may have resulted from their 30-day consumption of reclaimed water which contained up to 34 mg/l methanol and was produced by sorption purification of the atmospheric condensate during a prolonged manned experiment .
[ development of measures for preventing contamination of the atmosphere in hermetically sealed enclosures ] .
the kinetics of the outgassing of volatile substances from polymers of different function and composition was studied with respect to their natural ageing .
the outgassing rate was exponentially related to the time of the sample storage .
six to nine months after the polymer fabrication the outgassing rate decreased to a minimum .
possible nobilization of synthetic materials with the aid of diffusion stabilization and thermostatization was investigated .
practical recommendations on how to prevent contamination of the enclosed atmosphere with outgassed products of synthetic materials were developed .
[ mathematical model of an experimental ecological system with spatially separated components ] .
the paper describes a model of an experimental ecological system consisting of autotrophic and heterotrophic components and a nutrient medium .
the system has a zero stationary state and needs a correction .
the life time of the system and the level of the necessary correction have been determined for the experimental ecological system : lettuce - slugs - nutrient solution .
optimal conditions for the conjugation of trophic components of the system have been established .
[ preliminary evaluation of the possibility of using terrestrial mollusca as a component of closed ecological systems ] .
[ control of mineral nutrition of higher plants in biological life support systems ] .
control of mineral nutrition of higher plants is one of the problems involved in the development of life support systems .
the experiments on carrots cultivated aeroponically have demonstrated that mineral nutrition of plants can be controlled by means of a correction solution applied in accordance with the protocols derived from experimental studies of increase in the plant dry biomass .
[ model of an ecosystem closed as regards gas metabolism and with a periodically working autotrophic component. ii. stability of the periodic cycles ] .
the literature data concerning the effect of the atmosphere composition on the photosynthetic productivity of an intensive microalgal culture were used to build a mathematical model of a semiclosed ecological system working in the light-dark alternating cycles .
the type of the relationship between time cycles and composition of the stationary atmosphere of the ecological system has been established .
the conditions of the existence and stability of the stationary atmosphere have been determined .
[ composition of the volatile compounds in human sweat and urine ] .
mechanism of action of hypolipidemic and herbicidal aryloxy acids .
the effect of discrete charges on the electrical properties of a membrane .
[ comparative evaluation of results of intertrochanteric femur osteotomy and conservative hip joint releaving treatment in perthes-legg-calve disease ] .
in this paper the comparative evaluation of the results of the surgical and conservative treatment applied in patients with perthes-legg-calve disease is given .
the results obtained with intertrochanteric femur osteotomy performed in 39 patients and those obtained in 66 patients with conservative treatment are reported .
the results are evaluated from the point of view of the patients ' age , the localization of the process and the stages of the disease .
the surgical treatment brought about in 1/3 of the cases excellent-in 1/3 good - and in 1/3 unsatisfactory results .
int the group of patients who received conservative treatment 1/3 of the cases showed excellent - 1/5 of the cases good - and 3/5 of the cases unsatisfactory results .
the advantage of the surgicat treatment is that the patients are not confined to bed for long time and they must nol use walking splint releasing the hip-joint .
[ respiratory insufficiency in severely burned patients ] .
the increasing number of respiratory insufficiency , as well as of pulmonary complications after burns and their role in the post-traumatic mortality are pointed out by the author .
the pathophysiological processes responsible for the development of post-traumatic pulmonary complications are shortly resumed .
in respect of the clinical picture , three groups are distinguished by the author .
one case is reported in detail .
in the development of post-traumatic respiratory insufficiency important role is attributed by the author to the syndromes of micro-embolism .
this supposition is supported by the laboratory examination of 10 patients .
finally the problems of prevention and therapy are discussed and the importance of the iatrogenic damages is emphasized .
[ past and present management burns ] .
the management of burns consists essentially of the surgical removal of the necrotic skin layers and the substitution of the skin defects .
secondary skin transplantation does not prevent completely the cicatrization and all complications of the burn .
the management of burns is partially classed among the problems of the conservative therapy .
early excision excludes the danger of demarcation and infection , and immediate transplantation may prevent the destruction of the subcutaneous skin layers .
this advantages are assured in the cases concomitant with partial necrosis by xenotransplantation .
[ skin substitution in neck and facial burns ] .
the surgeon assuming the task of reconstruction of burned face must be skilled in plastic surgery .
primary surgical treatment and reconstruction are inseparable , therefore it is desirable that the treatment is performed since the day of the injury to the completion of the reconstruction by the same surgeon .
in the surgical management of the facial burns relative conservatism is advisable .
the excision is to be performed after the recovery of the second-degree burned areas .
the above-mentioned principles are documented by the author on the basis of a few cases .
[ experience with the treatment of open fractures ] .
the number of the injuries and of the open fractures is steadily increasing .
these latter are regularly due to traffic accidents .
characteristics of the open fractures are the extended lesion of the soft parts and the piece-like fractures .
the treatmend depends on the patient's general state , the extension of the lesion of the soft parts , the contamination and the infection of the wound , as well as on the localization and the type of the fracture .
in the case of proper indication the osteosynthesis yields satisfactory results , but it is not always to be performed and its use to exposed to dangers .
the conservative treatment assures good results , if the lesion of the soft parts is minimal , the reduction of the dislocation is easily accoplished and the bone ends are to be held together .
on the other hand , the method is unsuitable , if extended lesion of the soft parts occurs , as well as in the treatment of multifragmental fractures .
in this group of the open fractures we must try to find other , new methods .
[ presence of foreign body in hand and foot , diagnosed too late ] .
on the basis of 7 years ' material , the distribution of 73 foreign bodies - of non-metallic intensity - in the hand and the foot is discussed .
the foreign bodies did not appear as new , fresh lesions , but they have been diagnosed after longer or shorter symptom-free state .
in the case of fistulous process immediate removal has been performed , and in the case of closed cases - on the basis of the clinical picture - immediate removal - or removal after fixation for a few days was effective .
in the author's opinion , fixation is - so long as acute symptoms are present - in all cases indispensable , - fixation is immediately followed by physicotherapy , in order to assure good functional results .
[ therapeutic principles and results in the management of open fractures of the tibial ] .
in open fractures of the leg , in which because of any reason no primary stable osteosynthesis can be performed , threading with kirschner wire is preferred by the authors .
this method assures adaptation stability , with minimal osteosynthesis .
primary closure of the wound in the soft parts is striven by the authors , - if necessary , even by plastic surgery .
if primary healing of the wound is obtained and also the other conditions are favourable , the treatment after 7-10 days is the same as after covered fractures : stable osteosynthesis is performed .
on the other hand , if suppuration of the wound occurs , the opposing fixed fracutre bone ends assure favourable conditions for the successful surgical treatment of the fracture .
a further advantage of the method is that it may be performed without special instruments and without greater surgical experience .
the results obtained with this surgical treatment of open leg fractures in the 4 years ' material of the traumatological department of the first surgical clinique of the university medical school , pecs , are discussed by the authors .
[ infectious complications of primary osteosynthesis in aged patients ] .
in respect of iatrogenic infections the elderly patients are to be considered as endangered .
modern traumatology increases this danger in consequence of the foreign materials placed in the wounds .
the role of the antibiotic and chemotherapeutic prophylaxis is of utmost importance .
regrettably , the resistance of the pyogenics , especially of the strains in the hospitals is increasing , - in consequence , besides the maximal sterility the further improvement of the surgical technique and of the after-treatment are the most important tasks .
in the case of infection aimed antibiotic and chemotherapeutic , resp. , treatment may be successful .
[ soft tissue complications and their reconstruction following osteosynthesis of open tibial fractures ] .
the nowadays accepted principles of the treament of open leg fractures are discussed .
the open character of the lesion multiplies the possibilities of complications .
in the present paper the complications of the bone recovery are not dealt with , only the complications observed in the soft parts and the possibilities of their treatment are analysed by the authors .
according to the severity of the soft parts complications free transplantation of semi-thick skin , pedicle flap plasty , double-end graft plasty , crossed flap grafting , as well as the primary and secondary variations of these methods are used by the authors .
the satisfactory results obtained with these methods even in spite of the complications are pointed out by the authors .
[ experience with the treatment of open leg fractures ] .
open leg fractures observed in 81 patients are analysed by the authors .
in case of conservative treatment alone and in the group , which has been treated with primary osteosynthesis satisfactory results have been observed by the authors .
false joint and osteomyelitis happened only in the group , in which the patients obtained firstly conservative treatment and in the case of the failure of this treatment osteosynthesis has been carried out .
in the authors ' opinion the most frequent complications are due - besides the damage of the soft parts - to the repeated and sometimes erroneous interventions .
[ a rare form of the trigger finger ] .
[ closed isolated rupture of the patellar ligament ] .
[ primary humero-radial arthrodesis ] .
the surgical treatment of a severe injury in the cubital region of a bus-driver , aged 47 , is reported .
because of the extended contamination and the splintered fracture radical wound excision - involving also the chondral surfaces - has been performed and hereupon humero-radial arthrodesis was carried out .
the skin defect has been successfully treated secondarily by insert of a flap .
after uneventful recovery the patient could resume his work 6 months after the injury again .
[ xenograft in the treatment of burns ] .
the injury due to burns embraces three , nearly concentric zones .
the necrobiosis of the central and marginal zones is reversible and the pig-skin - assuring biological ligature - plays important role in turning for better of the process .
the preparation and use of xenograft - applied in the author's department - is discussed .
[ erraneously diagnosed and incorrectly treated foot deformity ] .
mosquito-borne arboviruses in arctic america .
mosquito-borne arboviruses are prevalent throughout subarctic regions of canada and alaska , principally in the boreal forest extending between latitudes 53 and 66 degrees n , but they have been identified in tundra regions as far north as 70 degrees n .
all mosquito-borne agents have been bunyaviruses , comprising principally the snowshoe hare subtype of california encephalitis ( ce ) virus , but also northway virus .
mosquito vectors comprise several aedes species and culiseta inornata , all of which have supported replication of ce virus following incubation at 13 degrees c or lower temperatures .
isolation of virus from wild-caught larvae points towards transovarial transfer .
principal vertebrate reservoirs of infection are mammals , especially snowshoe hares ( lepus americanus ) and ground squirrels ( citellus undulatus ) .
where the boreal forest merges into prairie grassland around 53 degrees n , culex tarsalis mosquitoes become prevalent , and an alphavirus , western equine encephalomyelitis , is detected more frequently than ce virus .
overwintering of mosquito-borne viruses .
the significance of mosquito longevity and blood-feeding behaviour in the dynamics of arbovirus infections .
mosquito longevity and blood-feeding behaviour are very important but neglected factors in the dynamics of arbovirus infections as changes in them affect transmission rates exponentially .
some mosquito species feed on a narrow range of vertebrates , some on a wide range , both influenced by host-availability and other environmental and behavioural factors .
only those which feed on maintenance hosts contribute to maintenance of the infection .
some species change their feeding pattern with season .
the frequency of blood-feeding depends inter alia on environmental temperature .
longevity is perhaps most important : the majority of mosquitoes infected probably do not survive long enough to become infective ; it is influenced by relative humidity , temperature and predation .
longevity , feeding frequency and the extrinsic incubation period are all temperature dependent and are therefore important rate determinants in seasonal epizootics or epidemics .
equally , their relative stability in the tropics contributes to the equilibrium of an enzootic or endemic .
properties of semliki forest virus nucleocapsid .
the nucleocapsid of the semliki forest virus is composed of 34 % rna and 66 % protein , or one rna and about 240 capsid protein molecules .
the particle is spherical , with a diameter of 38 -- 39 nm .
if the nucleocapsid is exposed to slightly acid ph ( 6.4 -- 5.6 ) it undergoes a structural change and is contracted to a 32 nm state .
a similar contraction can be effected by rnase treatment , in this case , however , in connection with a loss of rna .
treatment of the nucleocapsid with 0.2 mm sds results in dissociation of capsid protein from rna , an effect which suggests strong rna-protein interaction .
at 0.05 mm sds the protein remains associated with the rna , but the s-value is reduced from 150 s to 100 s .
electron micrographs of the 100 s ribonucleoprotein showed irregular and strand-like structures .
[ gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in pancreatic and hepato-biliary pathology. comparison with alkaline phosphatases and 5-nucleotidase ] .
[ therapeutic trial of a new antispasmodic drug in 50 cases of gastroduodenal ulcer and chronic pancreatitis ] .
[ demonstration of t-cell activation using synthetic polynucleotides ] .
the present data show that spn have a striking influence on thymus dependent t cells .
the enhancing effect of gvh reactions on antibody formation against thymus dependent antigens give a good explanation for the antitumor effects of this substance .
[ stress incontinence in the woman ( author's transl ) ] .
the morphology and function of the urethrovesical junction are described to give some understanding of the pathogenesis and therapy of female stress incontinence .
conservative procedures can only be helpful in stage-1 stress incontinence , whereas in stage 2 surgical treatment provides excellent results .
[ periarteritis nodosa of the hepatic type with australia antigen and retroperitoneal fibrosis ] .
relationships between molecular structure and excretion of drugs .
the effect of hormones on glucocorticoid binding capacity of rat liver cytosol .
brain biogenic amines and altered thyroid function .
topography of synaptosomal high affinity uptake systems .
comparison of the characteristics of the immobilized and solubilized glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase of human erythrocyte membranes .
stereochemistry of the hydrogen transfer to nadp catalyzed by d-galactose dehydrogenase from pseudomonas fluorescens .
glutathione and gamma glutamyl transferase in secretory processes .
influence of ionophores which bind calcium on the release of norepinephrine from synaptosomes .
diurnal variations in activity of four pyridoxal enzymes in rat liver during metabolic transition from high carbohydrate to high protein diet .
regulatory function of pyruvate dehydrogenase and the mitochondrion in lipogenesis .
the activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase from freshly isolated mitochondria was shown to be dependent upon the nutritional and metabolic state of the animal prior to sacrifice , such that mitochondria from the livers of 48 hr starved , diabetic , or high fat fed rats had lower enzyme activity than normal , chow fed rats .
the activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase and the rate of lipogenesis were shown to correlate to a certain extent when a reconstituted , cell free system consisting of 105,000 x g supernatant of rat liver and isolated mitochondria was used .
this system was employed so that the role of the mitochondrion and pyruvate dehydrogenase in lipogenesis could be investigated .
dichloroacetate increased the activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase and increased the rate of lipogenesis , suggesting that the activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase is an important factor in determining the rate of lipogenesis in the reconstituted system .
it was observed , however , that dichloroacetate was more effective in stimulating the activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase than the rate of lipogenesis when mitochondria from starved animals were used to reconstitute lipogenesis .
furthermore , the cytoplasmic adenosine triphosphate/adenosine diphosphate ratios and phosphorylation potentials ( atp/adp x pi ) maintained in the reconstituted system by mitochondria isolated from starved animals were found to be significantly lower than those maintained by mitochondria isolated from chow fed animals .
it is proposed that the lower `` energy pressure '' maintained in the reconstituted system by mitochondria isolated from starved animals severely limits lipogenesis at the atp requiring steps of the process .
studies in vitro of lipogenesis in rat testicular tissue .
testicular tissue was shown to contain the full complement of enzymes required for de novo synthesis of fatty acids .
the enzymes capable of snythesizing palmitic acid from citrate , acetate , or acetyl coa were found to be present in the soluble ( cytoplasmic ) fraction .
these included fatty acid synthetase , acetyl coa carboxylase , citrate-cleavage enzyme , malic enzyme , glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase , and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase .
optimal conditions for assaying activities of fatty acid synthetase and acetyl coa carboxylase in the soluble fraction from rat testes were established , and the activities of these two enzymes were determined to be 0.54 +/- 0.1 and 0.030 +/- 0.002 ( nmoles of substrate incorporated into fatty acid per min per mg of soluble fraction protein ) , respectively .
the activities of citrate-cleavage enzyme , malic enzyme , and the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase/6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase pair were also measured .
the activities were 6.0 +/- 0.7 , 34.9 +/- 4.2 , and 29.9 +/- 9.3 nmoles/min/mg , respectively .
fatty acid synthesis from 2-14c-acetate in rat testis mitochondrial and cytosol fractions in vitro .
an in vitro system for acetate incorporation into fatty acids by the mitochondrial and the cytosol fractions of rat testis is described .
the rate of incorporation of acetate into fatty acids was twice as fast with the mitochondrial as with the cytosol fraction ; both systems were stimulated in the presence of adenosine triphosphate , reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate , coenzyme a , and mgc1 ( 2 ) .
the optimum ph was between 7.0-7.5 for the mitochondrial fraction and between 6.5-8.0 for the cytosol fraction .
radio gas chromatography showed that palmitic acid was the most highly labeled acid , followed by stearic acid , in the mitochondrial fraction in accord with the pathway of de novo fatty acid synthesis .
some of the labeled acetate was also incorporated into the 16:1 and 18:1 fatty acids of this fraction .
distribution of radioactivity among the mitochondrial lipid classes was highest in the phospholipids and monoglycerides , followed by diglycerides and cholesterol ; little radioactivity was present in the triglyceride fraction .
these observations are in accord with studies of the incorporation of labeled metabolites into testicular lipids following intratesticular injection and indicate the validity of the in vitro system for studies of specific reactions occurring in vivo .
fat metabolism in higher plants : metabolism of medium chain fatty acids .
cell free preparations of avocado mesocarp and spinach leaf tissue rapidly convert lauryl coa to dl-3-hydroxyl lauric acid as well as 2- , and 3-dodecanoic acids .
the conversion does not occur under anaerobic conditions unless a suitable redox carrier such as ferredoxin is present .
h2 18o is incorporated into the 3-hydroxyl function , but o2 ( 18 ) is not .
the characteristics of this system are presented and a possible function of this system is proposed .
stearoyl-coa desaturase activity in mammary adenocarcinomas carried by c3h mice .
transplantable mammary adenocarcinomas and livers of c3h mice fed a stock diet or a linoleate rich diet ( 15 % corn oil ) contain similar amounts of oleate ( ca 3 mg/gm tissue ) .
on feeding either a high carbohydrate , fat free or a high carbohydrate , saturated fat-containing ( 15 % hydrogenated coconut or cottonseed oil ) diet for 6 weeks , oleate levels increased 2-fold in tumor and 5-fold in liver .
the specific activity of stearoyl-coa desaturase in liver microsomes was similar to that in the corresponding fractions of mammary glands of lactating mice .
in liver , this activity was enhanced 2- to 3-fold by feeding a high carbohydrate , fat free or a high carbohydrate , saturated fat diet .
the desaturase activity in mammary tumor microsomes , while only 10 % of that in hepatic microsomes , remained unaltered regardless of the type of diet fed .
these observations suggest that ( a ) a major portion of the oleate in the mammary tumor is not produced within the tissue , ( b ) dietary adaptation is not a general characteristic of stearoyl-coa desaturase in neoplastic tissues , and ( c ) enhanced desaturase activity in liver is directly related to the absence of linoleate or oleate , or to a large decrease in oleate in the diet .
iowa wrestling study : changes in the urinary profiles of wrestlers prior to and after competition .
during the 1973 and 1974 state high school wrestling championships , urine samples were obtained from wrestlers prior to the weigh-in , immediately before they wrestled , and immediately after the subjects had completed their match .
specific gravity , osmolarity , ph , sodium and potassium determinations , as well as qualitative tests for protein and ketones , indicated that the wrestlers were in a dehydrated state at the time of weigh-in .
after the five hour interim between the weigh-in and the first match , all but the ph measure remained essentially unchanged .
this absence of significant changes in the urinary profile suggests that the wrestlers were unable to rehydrate during the five hour time period between the weigh-in and the first match and that they were competing in a dehydrated state .
urine samples collected after competition were significantly lower in specific gravity , osmolarity and potassium concentration than samples obtained before the match .
the urinary potassium levels were of interest because at the three conditions ( weigh-in , before the first match , after competition ) they were 73-182 % higher than values reported for high school students who were nonwrestlers .
[ the effect of pentoxifyllin on the cyclic amp-system in thrombocytes ] .
[ the sleep and narcotics. physiology , pharmacology and clinical picture of sleep ] .
vasculitis with hepatitis b antigenemia : long-term observation in nine patients .
the development of generalized necrotizing vasculitis in association with hepatitis b antigenemia is the first example in man of a chronic rheumatic disease presumably caused by a viral infection .
this report reviews the experience in nine biopsy-proven cases of hepatitis b-associated necrotizing vasculitis followed for up to six years .
the natural history of the disease is emphasized and the manifestations of patients with vasculitis who carry hepatitis b antigen are compared with those of vasculitis patients who are antigen negative .
polyarthritis , polyarteritis and hepatitis b .
an association between viral hepatitis and two rheumatic disease syndromes has been observed .
twenty-nine patients manifested a transient polyarthritis , sometimes associated with a rash ( group i ) .
ten patients were seen with a multisystem disease ( group ii ) .
histologic evidence of arteritis or glomerulonephritis was present in seven of ten patients with multisystem disease .
liver tissue from 18 patients showed morphologic evidence of hepatitis with viral features in 9 of 10 patients in group i and in 6 of 8 patients in group ii .
hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) and/or antibody to hbsag were detected in sera of all 39 patients .
abnormal liver functions were present in 36 .
twelve group i patients and 2 group ii patients became jaundiced .
rheumatoid factor was present in sera of seven patients in each group .
the third component of complement ( c3 ) was depressed in 13 patients in group i and 7 patients in group ii .
the fourth component of complement ( c4 ) was decreased in 8 of 21 group i and 3 of 7 group ii patients .
synovial fluid c3 was decreased in 2 of 11 group i and 1 of 4 group ii patient's fluids .
articular inflammation in patients with transient polyarthritis responded in three to seven days to aspirin , acetominophen and/or bedrest alone and rashes disappeared spontaneously .
patients with multisystem disease generally had a prolonged illness and responded somewhat unpredictably to prednisone or a combination of prednisone and cyclophosphamide .
some evidence for aldosterone action on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate level in human red cells .
in healthy male subjects aldosterone excretion and plasma renin activity were reduced by a 4-6 hr head-out immersion in thermoindifferent water baths ( 35.5 +/- 0.1 degrees c ) .
the red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate ( dpg ) concentration before and throughout immersion period was positively correlated both with aldosterone excretion in 2 hr pooled urine ( r = +0.69 ; 2 p less than 0.001 ) and with renin activity ( r = + 0.54 ; 2p less than 0.001 ) despite a concomitant increase of cubital venous ph and inorganic phosphate concentration .
these findings furnish evidence for a regulatory role of aldosterone in dpg metabolism , possibily by a direct influence on red cell glycolysis .
[ alcohol dehydrogenase activity of nonsulfur purple bacteria ] .
rhodopseudomonas palustris , rh. viridis , rh. acidophila , and rhodomicrobium vanniellii grow on media containing ethanol , n-propanol , and n-butanol .
the highest amount of lower alcohols is utilized by the strains of rh. palustris .
only rh. acidophila accumulates methanol .
alcohol dehydrogenase of rh. palustris , rh. viridis , and rhodospirillum rubrum requires for its activity nad , that of rhodomicrobium vanniellii -- nadp , and the enzyme of rh. acidophila is active in the presence of phenazine metasulphate ( pms ) and ammonium ions .
aldehyde dehydrogenase from two strains of rh. palustris also requires nad ; the nakamura strain is active in the presence of pms .
aldehyde dehydrogenase of rh. acidophila is active in the presence of pms and ammonium ions .
different bacterial species vary in the substrate specificity of their alcohol dehydrogenases .
[ development of mycobacterium lacticolum and its synthesis of exopolysaccharide under conditions of varying acidity of the medium ] .
mycobacterium lacticolum 121 grows and synthesizes exopolysaccharide at the initial values of ph of the medium from 5.0 to 11.5 .
the accumulation of biomass is maximal ( 10 to 12 gram/litre ) at ph 6.0 to 11.5 ; the rate of growth is highest at ph 8.0 to 11.5 .
the largest amount of exopolysaccharide ( 2.0 to 2.4 gram/litre ) is produced in the medium at ph 8.0 to 11.0 ; the rate of its production is highest at ph 9.0 to 11.0 .
the growth of mycobacterium lacticolum 121 and the biosynthesis of polysaccharide are optimal at ph 8.0 to 8.2 .
changes in acidity of the medium have no effect on the qualitative composition , structure , and molecular weight of the polysaccharide .
[ effect of h+ and oh- ions on the physiological and biochemical properties of a pseudomonas methanolica culture ] .
the growth of pseudomonas methanolica was inhibited by unfavourable values of ph in the conditions of chemostat ; the rate of the substrate assimilation was higher , and anabolic and catabolic reactions were decoupled .
hydrogen ions inhibited the activity of enzymes of the krebs cycle , hydroxyl ions inhibited the activity of methanol dehydrogenase .
changes in ph are presumed to involve the energy apparatus of the cell membrane .
[ factors causing lysis of an actinomyces rimosus culture , the producer of the antibiotic , oxytetracycline ] .
the lysis of actinomyces rimosus producing oxytetracycline during its mass growth can be caused by two factors which were separated by differential centrifugation .
the first factor is phage particles of a temperate phage produced by the culture ; they are incapable of growth but may induce the lysis .
the phage particles treated with low ph and a temperature of 70 degrees c lose the lytic activity .
the second factor is a lytic enzyme produced under the control of the temperate phage during its induction ; it seems to consist of at least two enzymes , a lytic enzyme and a proteolytic enzyme .
the recognition and management of anxiety states .
[ proceedings : disorders in the cellular immunity ] .
[ proceedings : disorders of the myocardial metabolism in coronary disease ] .
[ pulmonary vascular pressures and blood gases in young patients with thoracic scoliosis ( author's transl ) ] .
pulmonary artery and pulmonary wedge pressures were measured at rest and during exercise in 25 young patients with moderate to severe scoliosis .
simultaneous determinations of arterial blood gases and ph were performed .
the results of the vascular pressure measurements were compared with those obtained in 15 healthy young subjects .
in all patients the pulmonary artery and pulmonary wedge pressure were normal at rest .
during mild ergometer exercise , however , an abnormal rise in pulmonary artery pressure occurred in 9 patients .
moreover , an increased diastolic pressure gradient across the pulmonary vascular bed was found in some scoliotic patients indicating an elevated pulmonary vascular resistance .
it is supposed that this haemodynamic abnormality is primarily due to a restriction of the pulmonary vascular bed .
relationships between pulmonary artery pressure and arterial oxygen tension and blood ph , respectively , could be found .
the possible significance of these results is discussed .
[ panarteritis nodosa-special aspects of glucocorticoid and immune suppressive therapy ( author's transl ) ] .
report dealing with the clinical and pathoanatomical course as well as the autopsy findings in a 54 year old female suffering from panarteritis nodosa .
onset of the illness with polyneuritis and arthralgia .
one year later diagnosis of panarteritis nodosa verified by muscle biopsy .
deterioration of the disease leading to the development of peripheral gangrene could not be prevented in spite of intensive therapy with steroids , immune suppressive agents , digitalis and antihypertensive drugs .
death 4 years later by myocardial infarction .
autopsy revealed generalized healed panarteritis nodosa with scarring and obliteration of vessels .
a short description of the symptoms of the disease is given and the efficacy of the therapy with steroids and immune suppressive drugs is discussed from the clinical as well as the pathoanatomical point of view .
immunopathologic mechanisms are considered to be the responsible factors for pathogenesis .
encroachment on the private practice of medicine .
shroud of silence is wearing thin .
group practice : profits and perils .
some good , some bad in 1976 .
the unkindest cut : healthcare .
medicare , medicaid and nhi will not be expanded in the 1977 budget and might even be cut .
healthy prospects for building .
coping with cutbacks and inflation .
where does the money go ?
persuasion through listening .
evaluating materials management .
finance from bottom to top .
negligence serves two masters .
drug therapy for parkinsonism .
the perils of produce .
mbo without the headaches .
the goals are at the poles .
who will finance nhi ?
hawaii's prepaid healthcare plan .
a scanner for every hospital ?
an american travesty .
new rules for medical devices .
strike .
staffing by contract .
setting performance standards .
innovative purchasing .
managerial blind spots .
turnover rate of tyrosine hydroxylase during trans-synaptic induction .
a re-evaluation of the optical titrations of the 430 and 455 nm chromophore of ethyl isocyanide complexes of mamalian hepatic cytochrome p-450 .
hepatic microsomal alcohol-oxidizing system in normal and acatalasemic mice : its dissociation from the peroxidatic activity of catalase-h2o2 .
[ an entrance or an exit gunshot wound ? report of a case ] .
the role of psychological factors in reversible drug-related dystonic reactions .
enzyme induction ( third of three parts ) .
case records of the massachusetts general hospital .
weekly clinicopathological exercises .
case 12-1976 .
letter : dosage of antipsychotic drugs .
role of hyperkalemia in the metabolic acidosis of isolated hypoaldosteronism .
we studied the relative importance of hyperkalemia and mineralocorticoid deficiency in the metabolic acidosis of a patient with proved isolated hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism and moderate kidney failure .
the hyperkalemia and acidosis were severe in relation to the slight azotemia .
despite the systemic acidosis and urinary ph of 4.9 , urinary ammonium excretion was distinctly blunted .
correction of the hyperkalemia by potassium-sodium exchange resin alone resolved the acidosis and restored the previously diminished urinary ammonium excretion to normal .
administration of mineralocorticoids only partially corrected the hyperkalemia and the acidosis .
hyperkalemia by itself , rather than hypoaldosteronism per se , caused the acidosis in this patient .
hyperkalemia apparently suppresses urinary ammonium excretion and thus interferes with urinary acidification .
letter : lack of drug precipitation in serum and plasma ( in vitro ) .
isolation of penicillium corylophium dierckx from acid mine water and its optimal growth on hydrocarbons at acid ph .
penicillium corylophilium dieckx was isolated from sludge collected at the interface of an aqueous , copper-bearing leachate and an organic , kerosene based , ion exchange solvent .
the organism assimilated kerosene and various straight chain and cyclic hydrocarbons including dodecane , hexadecane , octadecane , toluene , benzene , and cyclohexane .
assimilation of kerosene and hexadecane was optimal at ph 2 and was stimulated by yeast extract .
the effect of microbial mycolytic agents on trichophyton rubrum .
chitinolytic microorganisms isolated from forest soil and from healthy gypsy moth larvae ( porthetria dispar ( l. ) were screened for their ability to lyse trichophyton rubrum mycelia .
a few of these isolates were mycolytic on both autoclaved and on actively growing , intact , t. rubrum mycelia .
supernatants from these isolates , utilizing live t. rubrum as the sole carbon source , showed the same mycolytic ability .
assays of the supernatants for enzymatic activity revealed exocellular , stable enzymes that releases reducing substances including n-acetylglucosamine from the mycelia .
metal chelate affinity chromatography , a new approach to protein fractionation .
marked prolongation of post-tetanic potentiation at a transition temperature in its adaption .
models for metal ion function in carbonic anhydrase .
a model catalyst is described which has properties in common with carbonic anhydrase .
the model demonstrates the availability of a mechanism , previously only hypothetical , for the action of the enzyme .
it also shows , however , that this mechanism alone is not adequate to produce the high activity of the enzyme .
further experimental evidence for the synapse hypothesis of na+-current activation and inactivation at the ranvier node .
[ regulation of lipid synthesis in animal organs ] .
studies were made of the mechanisms regulating the quantity and catalytic efficiency of hepatic acetyl coenzyme a carboxylase , which plays a critical role in the control of fatty acid biosynthesis .
the microsomal enzyme system responsible for the formation of phosphatidic acid , the initial step in glycerolipid biosynthesis , was resolved into two component enzymes .
the acyl-donor specificities of these and other acyltransferases account for the asymmetric fatty acid distribution in naturally occurring glycerolipids .
insensitivity of bacterial nucleic acid biosyntheses to a morphine-like narcotic .
comparison of properties between virulent and attenuated strains of transmissible gastroenteritis virus .
strains of transmissible gastroenteritis ( tge ) virus possessing different pathogenicity were examined for stability to digestive enzymes and acid , and growth at various temperatures .
in growth experiments , virus titer obtained at 37 degrees c were about equal between attenuated and virulent strains , but titers attained by the attenuated strain were higher at 30 degrees c .
the attenuated virus multiplied at 28 degrees c , but the virulent virus did not at this temperature .
the virulent virus was significantly stable to trypsin and pepsin , but the attenuated virus was inactivated rapidly by these proteolytic enzymes .
no significant differences were observed in stability to acid between the attenuated and virulent strains .
at different ph , both lost their infectivity more rapidly at 37 degrees c than at 22 degrees c .
growth of ibaraki virus in suspension culture of hmlu-1 cells .
the established hamster lung cell line , hmlu-1 cells could grow in a suspended state .
the initial cell count , 40 x 10 ( 4 ) /ml , increased to 200 x 10 ( 4 ) /ml on the 4th day of culture .
the suspension culture of hmlu-1 cells was proved satisfactory for propagation of ibaraki virus .
the viral titer reached a maximum of 10 ( 6.75 ) tcid50/0.1 ml .
the input multiplicity ranging from 0.003 to 3.0 exerted no influence on the final yield of the virus .
the optimal ph value of initial culture ranged from 6.8 to 7.6 .
in comparison of virus yield per cell among the suspension culture and two methods of monolayer culture in stationary and rolling condition , there was no noticeable difference in it among the three methods .
the cell population per unit volume was the largest and , therefore , virus titer in the culture fluid the highest in the suspension culture of the three methods .
studies on the mechanism of the action of morphine on the peristalsis of guinea pig ileum in situ .
the influence of some drugs on the effect of morphine on the threshold pressure required to elicit peristalsis in the guinea pig ileum in situ was studied , in order to test the hypothesis that this effect of morphine is mediated by catecholamine release .
tachyphylaxis to this effect of morphine was confirmed .
pretreatemnt with two 8 mg/kg doses of reserpine , 24 and 48 hrs before the experiment , significantly reduced the effect of morphine on the pressure threshold .
the i.v. administration of 10 mg/kg dl-dopa re-established the effect of morphine in reserpinized animals to the level of the untreated controls .
pretreatment with guanethidine ( 15 mg/kg ) decreased and even prevented this effect of morphine .
phentolamine pretreatment ( 10 mg/kg ) also significantly inhibited the effect of morphine .
neither dci nor propranolol influenced this morphine effect .
pretreatment with reserpine , guanethidine or phentolamine reduced the basic pressure threshold needed to elicit peristalsis .
the possibility that the decrease of local circulation induced by hypotenison would reduce the local concentration of morphine was rejected because the same doses of guanethidine or phentolamine did not modify the effect of hexamethonium given i.v. in this preparation .
all these results support the idea that the effect of morphine on intestinal peristalsis is mediated by a catecholamine acting on alpha-receptors , e.g. norepinephrine .
effects of alpha-ketomonocarboxylic acids upon insulin secretion and metabolism of isolated pancreatic islets .
in perifused isolated pancreatic islets alpha-ketoisocaproic acid ( kic ) or alpha-ketocaproic acid ( kc ) induced a high insulin secretion rate and a steep increase of the fluorescence of reduced pyridine pyridine nucleotides [ nad ( p ) h ] which fell again to almost prestimulatory levels 6 min after medium change .
insulin release in response to alpha-ketooctanoic ( ko ) acid started slowly and was accompanied by a decrease of the nad ( p ) h-fluorescence trace .
beta-phenylpyruvate which is known to initiate insulin release also caused a fluorescence decrease .
alpha-keto-isovaleric ( kiv ) acid or pyruvate had no significant effects upon insulin secretion or nad ( p ) h-fluorescence .
in contrast to l-leucine , l-norleucine or l-valine did not enhance insulin release or fluorescence of nad ( p ) h .
kiv , alpha-keto-beta-methylvaleric acid ( kmv ) , kic and kc raised the production their corresponding amino acids by islet cells .
from these results it is concluded that alpha-ketomonocarboxylic acids as such trigger insulin release by acting upon receptor sites which differ from those occupied by amino acids .
norepinephrine reward pathways : role of self-stimulation , memory consolidation , and schizophrenia .
the preparation and properties of nerve growth factor protein at alkaline ph .
the nerve growth factor ( ngf ) subunit of 7s ngf was isolated by chromatography at high ph on qae-sephadex .
it has the same specific ngf activity as betangf isolated at acid ph , showing that this activity is an intrinsic property of the subunit and is independent of the pathway of dissociation .
continued exposure of the ngf subunit to high ph resulted in an increase in the amount of the minor species beta2ngf and the formation of a new species , beta3ngf , of even lower isoelectric point .
these two species and the original major species of the preparation , beta1 , were isolated by isoelectric focusing .
all three species had the same specific ngf activity , but differed in their ability to reform 7s ngf .
the beta2 species was one-fifth as competent as beta1 , while beta3 was unable to regenerate 7s ngf .
addition of alpha- and gamma-subunits to beta1ngf decreased the amount of ngf protein required to produce one biological unit of activity in the bioassay , but had no effect when added to beta3ngf .
the interactions between the subunits in 7s ngf therefore determine , in part , the specific activity of the ngf subunit .
concanavalin a-binding glycopeptides from rat brain glycoproteins .
the affinity of concanavalin a for neutral and acidic glycopeptides derived from rat brain glycoproteins was investigated by studying the inhibition of a concanavalin a-glycogen precipitation system .
the neutral , mannose-rich glycopeptides obtained by column electrophoresis of the dialyzable glycopeptides that had been solubilized by proteolytic treatment of defatted brain tissue were powerful inhibitors , with an inhibitory activity 20 to 26 times that of the standard inhibitor , methyl-alpha-d-mannoside .
the acidic sialoglycopeptides had activities one to nine times that of the mannoside .
therefore , both acid and neutral glycopeptides were capable of interacting with concanavalin a .
the especially strong affinity of the neutral mannose-rich glycopeptides , however , enabled their retention on concanavalin a-sepharose and subsequent elution with methyl-alpha-d-mannoside .
this provided the means of separation of the acidic sialoglycopeptides from the neutral , mannose-rich glycopeptides by affinity chromatography .
glycopeptides that contain n-acetylgalactosamine are not retained by concanavalin a-sepharose .
the use of hybrid molecules in a study of the equilibrium between nerve growth factor monomers and dimers .
the major protein in beta nerve growth factor preparations , beta1ngf , is a dimer in which both peptide chains have cooh-terminal arginine residues .
digestion of beta1ngf with carboxypeptidase b produced a dimer , beta3ngf , in which both chains lack these terminal arginine residues .
exposure of mixtures of beta1 and beta3ngf dimers to 8 m urea to produce monomers , followed by removal of urea to allow recombination , resulted in the formation of the hybrid beta2ngf , comprising one arginine-containing and one arginine-less chain , as well as the parent dimers .
the amount of the three dimers formed was close to that expected from random association of monomers .
hybrid beta2ngf was also formed from mixtures of beta1 and beta3ngf where incubated at ph 2.6 to 4.5 .
the formation of beta2ngf has a half-time of 6 h at ph 4.0 and 4 degrees c .
its rate of formation decreased above ph 4.5 , becoming minimal between ph 9.5 and ph 10.5 , and increased with increasing temperature .
the amount of beta2ngf formed was determined by the lowest ph to which the parent mixture was exposed , irrespective of its prior history .
these data suggest that the hybrid is formed by the same mechanism in the absence and presence of the urea step .
an approximate value for kd , the equilibrium dissociation constant of the dimer equilibrium monomer equilibrium was derived .
its value was 3 - 10 ( -10 ) m at ph 4.0 and 4 degrees c .
the alpha-subunit of 7s ngf decreased the rate of formation of beta2ngf not only at phs where an alphabeta complex is stable , but also at an acid ph where no complex formation is observed by sedimentation analysis , suggesting that the present methodology offers a more sensitive probe of subunit interactions .
in contrast , the gamma subunit and a number of indifferent proteins had little or no effect on the appearance of beta2ngf at the phs studied .
changes in hypothalamic neurotransmitter uptake following pinealectomy , superior cervical ganglionectomy or melatonin administration to rats .
rats subjected to pinealectomy or to pinealectomy plus bilateral superior cervical ganglionectomy exhibited depressed serotonin uptake by hypothalamic synaptosomes ; norepinephrine , dopamine or glutamate uptake was not affected by any of the surgical procedures .
treatment with melatonin resulted in inhibition of hypothalamic serotonin accumulation but it did not modify the uptake of norepinephrine , dopamine or glutamate .
these data suggest a relationship between the pineal gland and the serotoninergic nerve endings of the hypothalamus .
effects of pharmacological agents on [ 14c ] -nicotine distribution and movements in slices from different rat brain areas .
hypercapnia in metabolic alkalosis .
timolol maleate ( blocadren ) in the treatment of essential hypertension .
the antihypertensive activity of timolol ( blocadren , frosst-msd ) , a new beta blocking agent , was assessed in a single blind crossover placebo-controlled study in 14 patients with essential hypertension .
ten patients completed the trial .
the average standing pressure during the placebos periods was 168/109mmhg and during the periods on treatment with timolol the average standing pressure was 139/92mmhg .
all 10 patients showed some hypotensive response .
the average daily dosage was 21 mg with a range of 15-30 mg .
four patients achieved optimal levels of blood pressure by the end of one week's therapy with the maximum time required being four weeks .
timolol appears to be an effective antihypertensive agent .
side effects were insignificant .
effects of ritodrine hydrochloride on uterine activity and the cardiovascular system in toxemic patients .
the effects of ritodrine hydrochloride were evaluated in 25 toxemic patients in active labor utilizing continuous electronic monitoring of fetal and maternal cardiovascular systems and uterine activity .
fetal scalp blood and free flowing maternal antecubital venous blood was obtained for ph , po2 , pco2 , base deficit and blood glucose determinations prior to and immediately following the study period .
the initial ritodrine dose was 50 mug/min for 15 minutes .
the dose was increased by 50 mug/min each 15 minutes until there was a clinically apparent reduction in uterine activity .
once this was accomplished , the infusion was maintained for 30 minutes .
there was a consistent increase in the maternal heart rate ( mhr ) and a significant rise in fetal heart rate ( fhr ) late in the infusion and in the postinfusion period .
there was a widening of the maternal pulse pressure mainly due to a reduction in diastolic pressure with little change in the mean blood pressure .
maternal and fetal ph decreased and base deficit increased during the study although the po2 and pco2 remained unchanged .
maternal and fetal blood glucose rose significantly following ritodrine infusion .
treatment of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome by antihistamine .
ovarian hyperstimulation was produced by human menopausal gonadotropin and chorionic gonadotropin in rabbits .
a more rapid regression of the hyperstimualted ovaries was observed in an antihistamine-treated group than in a control group .
the difference in regression was found to be statistically significant .
the possibility of treating the ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome by antihistamine is cited .
high ph ammonia toxicity , and the search for life on the jovian planets .
jovian plants have enviroments apparently suitable for the evolution of life , but nevertheless , present severe challenges to organisms .
one such challenge arises from the presence of ammonia .
ammonia is an efficient biocide , its effect being dependent on ph as well as on concentration .
the effects of ph and ammonia concentration were studied separately , where possible , on a variety of organisms , including some isolated from natural enviornments of high ph and/or ammonia concentration .
escherichia coli and bacillus subtilis are both extremely sensitive to ammonia .
an aerobic organism ( growth up to ph 11.4 ) from an alkaline spring is more resistant , but exhibits a toxic response to ammonia at a ph much lower than its maximum for growth .
the greatest ammonia resistance has been found in an unidentified organism growing at near neutral ph .
even in this case , however , survival at ammonia concentrations reasonably expected on the jovian planets is measured in hours .
this is , nevertheless , two to three orders of magnitude longer than for e. coli .
our data support the tentative conclusion that contamination of the jovian planets with terrestrial organisms that can grow is unlikely .
however , the range of toxic response noted , coupled with the observation that terrestrial life has not been exposed to high ammonia concentrations for millions of years , suggests that adaptation to greater ammonia tolerance may be possible .
[ some properties of electrolyte balance in premature infants ] .
[ treatment of bronchial asthma ] .
[ endocrinologic peculiarities of the course of pregnancy and labor in primaparous women of the older age groups ] .
[ gas exchange and the acid-base equilibrium in pregnancy with rheumatic fever prior to labor ] .
gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase in the rat liver after portacaval shunt .
gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase ( ggtp ) activity was studied in livers of rats submitted to an end-to-side portacaval shunt ( pcs ) and in developing animals .
to correlate the evolution of the enzymatic activity measured in vitro , histochemical techniques were used to localize enzyme activity in liver tissue .
the ggtp activity in the adult rats was low and amounted to 2.0 +/- 0.1 mumol/min/g .
during fetal development the enzyme activity rose beginning on the 15th gestational day from 630 +/- 97 to 1,058 +/- 20 on the first postnatal day .
then the values declined and reached nearly adult values from the 10th postnatal day .
after pcs the ggtp activity exhibited a three- to sixfold increase ( 130 +/- 69 to 371 +/- 131 ) as compared with unoperated adult controls ( 53 +/- 13 ) . the highest levels corresponded to those observed between the 3rd and 5th postnatal day in the developing rats .
the histochemistry of gttp in the fetal and newborn liver showed a regular distribution of the enzyme as a fine deposit in the hepatocytes throughout the whole tissue .
ten days after birth the activity was low , at the same level as in the adult rat .
in the period after pcs hepatocytes began to show signs of enzymatic activity at the periphery of the hepatic lobules , which subsequently spread through the whole lobules .
the increase of ggtp activity after pcs equaled the activity found in fetal animals .
that correlated well in both groups with the reappearance of histologically demonstrable enzyme activity in hepatocytes .
cardiovascular effects of electrical stimulation of the forebrain in the fetal lamb .
modified stereotaxic techniques were applied to fetal lambs during the latter third of gestation .
electrical stimulation in the region of the hypothalamus in 10 acute experiments was associated with three patterns of arterial blood pressure and heart rate changes : a pressor-tachycardia response ; a pure tachycardia response ( abolished by propranolol ) ; and a pure bradycardia response ( abolished by atropine ) .
the pressor-tachycardia response was examined in detail in 13 chronic preparations ( 115-135 days of gestation at operation ) .
the systolic arterial blood pressure increase was never greater than 35 mm hg and was probably blunted by the large noninnervated placental circulation .
this pressure increase was abolished by phentolamine and was thus mediated by stimulation of alpha-adrenergic receptors .
the initial tachycardia was prevented by propranolol and was due to beta-adrenergic stimulation .
the tachycardia was followed in a few seconds by a bradycardia , abolished by atropine and possibly a vagal baroreflex .
the pressor-tachycardia response was accentuated in two lambs who were delivered spontaneously and were studied after birth .
these studies indicate that a suprabulbar neural framework exists in the fetal lamb for influencing the cardiovascular system from as early as 90 days of gestation .
elevated levels of immunoglobulin e in the acute febrile mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome .
mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ( mcls ) is a newly recognized disease characterized by fever persisting for more than 5 days , an erythematous skin eruption , conjunctival congestion , dry red fissured lips , reddened tongue , palms , and soles , nonpurulent lymphadenopathy , and sometines diarrhea , arthralgia , and aseptic meningitis .
additional features may include carditis , pericarditis , aneurysmal dilation and thrombosis of coronary arteries , and sudden death .
there is a striking similarity of fatal cases to infantile polyarteritis nodosa , a disease recently reported to be associated with elevated levels of serium ige .
indeed , it is likely that mcls represents a disease which can progress to polyarteritis nodosa in infants and young children .
the paired acute and convalescent serum ige levels of 20 subjects with acute nonfatal mcls were studied along with 20 near-age unaffected controls from the same communities in japan .
the results indicate that most if not all subjects with mcls in the study had an elevation of total serum ige during the acute phase of the disease ( geometric mean 157 iu/ml compared with the control value of 38 iu/ml , p = 0.005 ) .
the level appeared to reach a peak 1-2 weeks after onset and declined over the ensuing 1-2 months .
diminished pulmonary lecithin synthesis in acidosis : experimental findings as related to the respiratory distress syndrome .
lung slices from term fetal rats were incubated in vitro at various ph values and the rates of the two de novo pathways for lecithin biosynthesis were determined by measuring the conversion of either 14c-choline ( pathway 1 ) or 14c-methionine ( pathway 2 ) to the phospholipid .
it was observed that the choline pathway , but not phosphatidylethanolamine methylation , is ph-sensitive with maximum rates occurring at ph levels between 7.3 and 7.5 ; significantly less activity was found at ph levels between 7.0 and 7.2 and at ph levels between 7.6 and 8.0 .
adjustment of the ph from 7.0 to 7.4 in vitro simulating the clinical correction of acidosis by alkali infusion was found to increase the conversion of choline to lecithin to a rate approximating that observed at ph 7.4 .
since lecithins are the principal phospholipid components of pulmonary surfactant , and since pathway 1 is predominantly responsible for lung lecithin synthesis , the demonstration of impaired production with reduced ph offers a biochemical explanation for the pathophysiological effects of acidosis in the respiratory distress syndrome .
a comparison of ph effects on choline pathway rate with the ph profiles of pathway enzymes suggests that these effects are mediated by the catalysts of lecithin synthesis .
ph and bicarbonate excretion in the rat parotid gland as a function of salivary rate .
the bicarbonate concentration in rat parotid saliva increases with increasing flow rates and approximates plasma values at highest salivation .
at lowest flow rates the bicarbonate concentration in the secretory fluid markedly exceeds the plasma levels .
intravenous administration of acetazolamide has no influence on the bicarbonate excretion of the parotid gland .
following retrograde application of acetazolamide into the gland duct the concentrations of both bicarbonate and sodium are elevated .
the potassium concentrations in final saliva exceed 70 meq/l at flow rates below 5 mul/min g gland weight .
with increasing flow rates a precipitous decrease in potassium concentration below 10 meq/l occurs .
with further increase in flow rate the potassium concentration remains unchanged .
the sodium concentrations increased with augmented salivation rate .
at lowest flow rates the sodium concentrations showed an increase of modest degree .
our findings can best be explained by the existence of two independent ductular mechanism : a ) bicarbonate reabsorption probably in the striated ducts of the parotid gland ; b ) secretion of potassium with concomitand secretion of bicarbonate in the main excretory duct .
h+ transport and membrane-bound hco - 3 atpase in salivary duct epithelium .
an atpase stimulated by hco - ions and other oxybases and inhibited by scn- has been found in main excretory duct of rat submaxillary gland , a tissue , capable of actively secreting hco - 3 ions .
no such atpase was found in the rabbit duct , which normally does not secrete hco - 3 .
the hco - 3 atpase was localized in the plasma membrane fraction of the homogenate , as evidenced by the marker 5'-nucleotidase .
the activities of the hco - 3 atpase increased in metabolic alkalosis and decreased in metabolic acidosis in parallel to secretion of hco - 3 and k+ ions by the duct epithelium .
these findings provide further evidence that the membrane-bound hco - 3 atpase is involved in active h+/hco - 3 transport .
effects of cyanide and doxapram during hypothermia .
the ventilatory responses , blood gases and acid-base status to intravenous injections of kcn and doxapram hydrochloride were studied in anesthetized dogs during normothermia and at two levels of hypothermia .
in the normothermic animal , kcn evoked significant elevations of minute and alveolar ventilations .
for the mildly hypothermic ( 32-33 degrees c ) dog , minute and alveolar ventilations were proportionally greater than for normothermia .
bolus infusions of kcn to deeply hypothermic dogs ( 28-29 degrees c ) elicited larger and nearly similar increases of minute and alveolar ventilations as compared , respectively , with normothermia and mild hypothermia .
compared to their controls , injections of doxapram during normothermia , mild and deep hypothermia augmented ve 43.3 % , 63.6 % and 31.5 % , respectively .
with doxapram there was a feeble increase in alveolar ventilation .
these results demonstrate that the peripheral ( arterial ) chemoreceptors preserve the capacity to respond to stimuli given acutely while lowering core temperature and in some circumstances this capacity is even enhanced as compared to normothermia .
effects of cyanide and doxapram during panting .
the ventilatory responses , blood gases and acid-base status to intravenous injections of kcn and doxapram hydrochloride were studied in anesthetized dogs during normothermia and thermally induced panting .
in the normothermic animal , kcn evoked elevation of ve ( 154.7 % ) , vt ( 70.1 % ) , f ( 48.3 % , pao2 ( 12.1 % ) and ph ( 0.098 units ) , while paco2 diminished by 9.7 mm hg .
during panting , kcn infusions resulted in increases of ve ( 24.5 % ) , vt ( 46.6 % ) , pao2 ( 3.9 % ) and ph ( 0.034 units ) , while f decreased ( 10.1 % ) .
bolus injections of doxapram during normothermia increased ve ( 32.6 % ) , vt ( 18.8 % ) and f ( 17.1 % ) .
during panting ve , vt and f increased by 18.0 % , 18.2 % and 1.5 % , respectively .
these results demonstrate that the peripheral ( arterial ) chemoreceptors preserve the capacity to react to acute chemical stimuli in animals in which the thermal stimuli override the normal chemical control of respiration in order to control body temperature , and that this reaction contributes to the integrated respiratory drive .
reports of six individual workshops .
the influence of 5-hydroxytryptamine and some beta-adrenolytic compounds on adenylylcyclase in rabbit brain in vitro .
the effect of alpha-adrenolytics on the levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in rat's brain .
alpha-adrenolytics ( aba ) -phenoxybenzamine , phentolamine and aceperone-increase 5-hydroxyindoleacetic ( 5-hiaa ) acid content in rat's brain .
at the same time , these compounds either increase or do not affect 5-hydroxytryptamine ( 5-ht ) level .
moreover , they potentiate l-dopa and reserpine-induced increase in 5-hiaa level and antagonized clonidine-induced decrease in 5-hiaa content .
the experiments with probenecid indicate that the observed increase in 5-hiaa does not result from the deficient elimination of the metabolite from brain .
the increase in 5-ht turnover in brain , due to aba , is suggested .
the central action of drugs influencing beta-adrenergic receptor .
part v .
the interaction of drugs affecting beta-adrenergic receptor in motility test .
propranolol , alprenolol and sotalol given intraventricularly ( ivc ) to rats reduce depressing effects of isoprenaline ( ips ) and antagonize stimulating effects of noradrenaline ( na ) .
phentolamine given by the same route of administration does not affect ips action .
the effect of alpha , alpha1-dipyridyl on noradrenaline , dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine levels and on dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activity in brain .
the effects of alpha , alpha1-dipyridyl ( dp ) on noradrenaline ( na ) , dopamine ( da ) and 5-hydroxytryptamine ( 5-ht ) levels in rat and mouse brain and on dopamine-beta-hydroxylase ( dbetah ) activity in rat brain have been studied , dp decreases na level and inhibits dbetah activity in a dose dependent manner , without affecting da or 5-ht levels .
colorimetric determination of bromisoval and carbromal .
new colorimetric procedure for determination of bromisoval and carbromal is based on the hydroxamation reaction and colour developing after addition of fe ( clo4 ) 3 .
the method is employed for the estimation of both compounds in substances and in tablets .
combating diabetic ketoacidosis and other hyperglycemic-ketoacidotic syndromes .
diabetic ketoacidosis is an acute medical emergency that requires immediate diagnosis and treatment .
diagnosis may be established rapidly by measurement of urinary glucose and ketones , arterial blood ph and blood gases , and serum ketones .
rapid infusion of large volumes of fluids and electrolytes , together with continuous infusion of low doses of insulin , provides effective restoration of fluid and electrolyte balance and correction of metabolic derangements .
hyperosmolar nonketotic coma is characterized by marked hyperglycemia in the absence of ketoacidosis and occurs usually in patients with mild adult-onset diabetes .
symptoms develop more slowly than in diabetic ketoacidosis .
treatment is the same for both conditions .
in alcoholic ketoacidosis , hyperketonemia is present without hyperglycemia .
the syndrome differs from diabetic ketoacidosis in that blood glucose levels are lower and glycosuria is absent .
treatment consists of intravenous administration of dextrose in water and , if necessary , of sodium bicarbonate .
insulin administration usually is not necessary .
[ current conception of the bohr effect ] .
the molecular mechanism of the bohr effect is explained according to the molecular model proposed by perutz et al .
the bohr effect is due to changes in the pk of specific carboxyl and amino groups of the four globin chains following the transition between the deoxy and oxy conformations of the molecule .
carbon dioxide binds to the n terminal valine of the 4 monomers to form carbamino compounds .
this carbaminoformation depends upon ph , pco2 and predominates on deoxygenated haemoglobin .
it is lowered when o2 binds to the heme groups ( o2 linked carbamino compounds ) .
through the carbamino compounds carbon dioxide lowers both the affinity of haemoglobin for o2 and the bohr effect .
diphosphoglycerate also binds to the haemoglogin molecule .
this organophosphate lowers the affinity for o2 but increases the bohr effect .
in whole blood , the bohr effect is therefore dependent upon ph , o2 saturation , pco2 and dpg concentration into the red blood cells .
[ study of p50 in patients under continuous o2 inhalation and during chronic respiratory acidosis ] .
in vitro , the affinity of hb for o2 depends on ph and capnia by the intermediate of the 2-3 dpg level , the concentration of which lowers in the case of acidosis and hypercapnia .
thus , an increase in the affinity results , but while bohr's effect is immediate , on the contrary the 2-3 dpg effect is slow .
authors have verified the importance of this modification by studying the affinity of hb for o2 thanks to the p50 technique in 15 normal non-smokers subjects and in 10 subjects with compensated or not respiratory acidosis but normally saturated thanks to continuous o2 administration .
[ effect of cultivation conditions on the synthesis of citric and isocitric acids in candida lipolytica on hexadecane medium ] .
the influence of aeration , ph and iron concentration on the growth of yeast c. lipolytica 704 on the hexadecane medium and on the synthesis of citric and isocitric acids was investigated .
the yeast synthesized citric acids actively during intensive aeration .
the acid formation was strongly dependent on the medium acidity : ph 6.0 was most favourable for the synthesis of citric acids .
the fe concentration influenced significantly the ratio of the acids synthesized .
at a low concentration of iron ( 0.005 mg fe/l ) equal amounts of citrate and isocitrate were formed ; at an increased concentration isocitrate was in predominant formation .
[ study of inosine transformation into 5'-inosinic acid by the culture of pseudomonas trifoli ] .
the transformation of inosine into 5'-inosine acid by pseudomonas trifolii cells was studied .
the synthesis of 5'-inosine acid can be performed by both live intact and dry cells .
the effectiveness of inosine phosphorylation depends on the ratio of the inosine and phosphate donor concentrations and the amount of cells .
the temperature and ph effect on activity of nucleoside phosphotransferase , phosphomonoesterase and 5'-nucleotidase has been studied .
the influence of surface active substances and metal ions on the synthesis of 5'-inosine acid has been investigated .
optimal conditions for the inosine transformation by the above culture have been established .
[ effect of ph on the enzymic activity of the fungi trichothecium roseum and aspergillus niger hydrolyzing nonstarch polysaccharides ] .
the purpose of the study was to determine optimal ph values for the enzymic activity of the fungi trichothecium roseum and aspergillus niger hydrolyzing nonstarch polysaccharides of barley and disrupting cell walls ( cytolysis ) of grain , the so called cytolytic enzymes .
the effect of the acidity of the medium on the stability of these enzymes was also investigated .
in this connection total cytolytic activity ( i. e. total activity of the enzymes hydrolyzing nonstarch polysaccharides of cell walls of barley ) and hemicellulase activity of the fungi at different ph values were measured .
the activity of these enzymes in aqueous extracts from the fungal culture at optimal ph after preincubation was determined at different acidity levels .
the optimum of the hemicellulase activity of both fungi was at 4.6 , the optimum of the total cytolytic activity of tr. roseum at ph 5.6 and of asp. niger at ph 3.0 .
the enzymes of the fungus asp. niger showed a far higher acid stability than those of tr. roseum .
[ study of the yeast dissolving enzymic complex by isoelectric focusing ] .
by isoelectric focussing the lyzing complex produced by actinomyces griseinus-11 has been fractionated .
the sole neutral protease which is active at ph 7.0 does not participate in lysis induced by other enzymes .
the lyzing activity of this complex is associated with the carbohydrase enzymes that are at least three in number .
various carbohydrases may exert a synergistic effect upon their combined action on the protein-vitamin concentrate .
[ isolation and basic properties of thiamine pyrophosphokinase from brewing yeast ] .
thiamine pyrophosphokinase ( ec 2.7.7.2 ) isolated from dry brewing yeast has been purified 20-fold with a 70 % yield .
certain properties of the enzyme have been determined : ph and temperature optima , donor and acceptor concentrations , and relationship between the rate of cocarboxylase biosynthesis and the incubation time and the enzyme quantity .
the effects of concentrations of bivalent metal ions co2+ , mg2+ and mn2+ on the rate of the enzymic reaction has been studied .
a change in the ph optimum as a function of the nature of the ion-activator has been investigated .
it has been shown that neopyrithiamin is a competitive inhibitor and oxythiamin inhibits the enzymic reaction insignificantly .
thiamine phosphate can not be transformed into thiamine diphosphate by the purified enzyme .
[ trypsin interaction with sodium alginate ] .
the formation of an insoluble product of the interaction of trypsin and sodium alginate at ph 3-9 was studied .
the optic density of the system was in an extreme relation to the composition .
the insoluble phase was enriched in trypsin .
the dispersion phase formed as a result of the electrostatic interaction between alginate macroanion and trypsin macrocation .
the interaction brought about the formation of atn , where n=90-900 ( with an accuracy of the term mw/mn of alginate ) .
the relation between the composition of the complex and ph was nonmonotonous .
[ study of properties of heat activated enzyme preparations ] .
the paper describes studies of heat treatment of the preparations amylorizin g10x , amylosubtilin g10x and glucoendomycopsin g15 and its effect on the relationshop between the rate of the enzymic reaction and the preparation concentration , optimal ph and temperatures , and the edta influence on the activity of heated preparations .
after heating the preparations showed an elevation of optimal temperatures of their action and a shift of optimal ph to the alkaline region .
primary heating of the preparations resulted in an increase of the rate of the enzymic reaction .
heated preparations were less susceptible to the effect of the inhibitor that nonheated ones .
[ effect of ph on the properties of the chemostatic culture of canida utilis ] .
the effect of hydrogen and hydroxyl ions on the physiological features of the yeast c. utilis vkmu-1668 was studied .
high acidity inhibited yeast growth and uncoupled pathways of the energy and constructive metabolism : normal respiration was disturbed and the electron transport chain was damaged in the site of cytochromes and not flavins .
hydroxyl ions also inhibited yeast growth and uncoupled pathways of the energy and constructive metabolism : oxygen uptake and the content of flavin adenone dinucleotide increased , dehydrogenase activity upon the use of glycerol decreased significantly , and the absolute amount of all cytochromes declined slightly .
the chemical composition of cellular polymers at all ph values tested was stable enough .
the amount of major metabolites -- volatile oils and ketoacids -- was insignificant .
[ purification of glutamine synthetase from the yeast candida tropicalis ] .
[ activation of l-amino acids by aminoacyl-trna-synthetases from yeast candida utilis ibpm-405 ] .
the procedure for isolating aminoacyl-trna-synthetases from yeast candida utilis ibpm-405 was developed .
the rate of activation of l-amino acids in the formation of hydroxamates was different .
aspartic acid , asparagine , glutamic acid , tryptophane , phenyl alanine and methionine underwent the highest activation .
the activation of alanine , arginine , hydroxyproline , serine and isoleucine was insignificant .
using aspartic acid , it was shown that the hydroxamate formation was atp-stimulated and that the amount of hydroxamate increased with a rise of the protein concentration in the mixture to 9-10 mg/ml .
the hydroxamate formation was inhibited by p-chloromercury-benzoate and heavy metal ions .
yeast aminoacyl-trna-synthetases showed l-aspartic and l-glutamic activities that were independent from mg++ ions and atp .
[ lactose hydrolysis by yeast beta-galactosidase ] .
[ some properties of proteases of the mould mucor pusillus-917 ] .
the proteolytic preparation of mucor pusillus-917 has been obtained .
the preparation produces an effective hydrolytic influence on milk casein .
thermal and acid inactivation of the proteolytic complex is the reaction of the first order .
the activity-ph curves , calculations of ionization heat , inactivation of proteases by photooxidation and monoiodoacetic acid suggest that imidazole , carboxyl and sulphydryl groups of proteases are involved in the clotting and hydrolysis of milk .
[ isolation and study of levansaccharase of acetobacter subyoxydans l-1 ] .
[ properties of immobilized trypsin and alpha-chymotrypsin and their use for purification of proteinase inhibitors from potatoes ] .
immobilized trypsin and alpha-chymotrypsin were obtained as a result of the enzyme attachment to bromo-cyanogen activated cepharose .
proteolytic activity ( substrate -- casein ) of immobilized trypsin and alpha-chymotrypsin was 18.7 and 9 % , respectively and their esterase activity with methyl ester benzoyl-l-arginine ( trypsin ) and ethyl ester acetyl-l-tyrosine ( alpha-chymotrypsin ) was 75 and 20 % of that of soluble enzymes .
immobilized enzymes were used to purify proteinase inhibitors from potatoes by affine chromatography .
specific activity of trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitors was increased 10 and 6 times , respectively .
by isoelectric focussing it was shown that the purified preparation of chymotrypsin inhibitors consisted of two acid proteins and one alkaline protein , the latter being in predominance .
the purified preparation of trypsin inhibitors contained equal amounts of proteins with the isoelectric point at ph 7.1 and 8.9 and a low quantity of the component with the isoelectric point at ph 5.7 .
[ lipolytic enzymes of cotton seeds and their stability ] .
[ regulation of glutamine synthetase of the fodder yeast candida tropicalis by ammonium ions ] .
the effect of ammonium on glutamine synthetase of fodder yeast candida tropicalis was studied .
ammonium ions were found to repress the synthesis of glutamine synthetase of fodder yeast and to inhibit the enzyme in the cells .
the substitution of glutamic acid for ammonium in the nutrient medium brought about depression of glutamine synthetase .
[ effect of the composition of the nutrient medium on the synthesis of acid-fast alpha-amylase by different strains of aspergillus ] .
the capacity of 86 strains of the aspergillus fungus to synthesize acid stable alpha-amylase was examined .
the strains of asp. niger showing a high capacity of synthesizing the enzyme were isolated .
repeated cultivation of the selected cultures on the minoda agar medium led to a 200 % increase in the enzyme activity in the submerged culture .
addition of sodium nitrate to the minoda medium during submerged cultivation allowed a 3-fold increase of the synthesis of acid stable alpha-amylase .
[ effect of different ph values on the activity and quaternary structure of asparaginase in escherichia coli extracts ] .
the effect of low ph values on the activity and stability of the quaternary structure of asparaginase from escherichia coli was investigated at early stages of purification of the enzyme .
acidification of the e. coli extract was most effective before the biomass separation .
this procedure helped to separate biomass together with coagulated ballast proteins and not to reduce the activity .
upon storage of the acidified solution at 5 degrees c reversible dissociation of the tetrametric structure into dimers and monomers occurred .
stability of l-asparaginase in the storage of acetone powders and during extraction was studied .
it is suggested that asparaginase in bacterial cells in unlikely to have the quaternary structure which normally occurs in the solution at neutral ph .
[ rhizopus microsporus strain uzlt-i -- a thermotolerant producer of lipase ] .
the properties of the thermotolerant fungus rhizopus microsporus strain uzlt-1 -- producer of lipolyptic enzymes are described .
optimal cultivation conditions -- 40 degrees , c , ph 4.5 -- are determined .
the lipolytic activity of the culture on the medium consisting of corn extract ( 2 % ) , cotton-seed oil ( 1 % ) and water is 850 ml 0.1 n koh per 100 ml culture liquid .
the enzymic preparations of lipase have been precipitated by isopropanol and ammonium sulphate .
the preparation precipitated by isopropanol shows its macimum activity at ph 4.2 and 7.8 and a temperature of 40 -- 50 degrees c .
[ preparation of proteolytic enzymes from the thermophilous actinomycete actinomyces thermovulgaris str. t-54 ] .
a preparation with a high proteolytic activity has been obtained by acetone precipitation from the culture liquid filtrate of the thermophilous actinomycete actinomyces thermovulgaris str .
t-54 .
the proteolytic ( caseinolytic ) , fibrinolytic and thrombolytic activity of the preparation is comparable with that of trypsin and far superior to that of fibrinolysine .
the preparation is stable at ph 5.0=9.5 and inactivated in the acid zone .
the study of ph dependent proteolytic activity has shown acid , neutral and alkaline proteases in the preparation .
it is relatively thermostable , and is completely inactivated for 10 min at 90 degrees .
it is suggested that the preparation contains four enzymes or four enzymic groups that are different in their temperature sensitivity .
[ analysis of acid proteinases from aspergillus terricola ] .
the specific action and composition of the functional groups of active centres of three fractions of acid proteinases from aspergillus terricola have been studied .
with respect to the hydrolysis rates of acetyl-l-phenylalanyl-l-tyrosine and carbobenzoxy-d , l-glycyl-phenylalanine by the three fractions it is suggested that the interaction of acid proteinases with the substrate involves hydrophobic forces .
it has been shown that the above fractions are no metal enzymes .
by means of the diazocarbonyl inhibitor an occurrence of a catalytically active carboxy group has been found in the active centre of proteinases .
the proteinase inhibition by fe3+ in the presence of citric acid is an indirect evidence of the existence of several carboxy groups and , possibly , of a hydroxy group in the active centre of acid proteinases from aspergillus terricola .
[ thermo- and ph-stability of soluble and silichrome-80 immobilized proteinase from bacillus subtilis ] .
the stability to heating and ph changing of two proteinases of bacillus subtilis was studied .
the preparations were : protosubtilin g10x with an activity of 21500 units/g and proteinase immobilized on silochrome c-80 with an activity of 3880 units/g .
for protosubtilin g10x the ph optimum was 7.0-7.2 .
for the immobilized preparation 96-100 % activity was found at ph 5.5-10.0 .
the difference between the two proteinase preparations was more distinct with respect to the temperature minimum .
the initial preparation-protosubtilin g10x was more stable to low temperature and showed maximum activity at 40 degrees ; the immobilized preparation was less active at low temperatures and showed maximum activity at 60-70 degrees .
protosubtilin g10x was more sensitive to ph changes , especially in the acid zone ( ph 4.5 ) .
it was significantly activated at 30-40 degrees and was unstable at 50-60 degrees .
the immobilized preparation was activated at 50- 60 degrees and was insensitive to ph changes in the range of 4.5 to 9.2 and temperature changes from 10 degrees to 40 degrees for 1.5-2.0 hours .
[ preparation and properties of beta-galactosidase linked covalently with km-cellulose ] .
fungal beta-galactosidase was immobilized by covalent binding with km-cellulose .
the resultant preparation contained 3 mg protein per 1 g carrier ; its specific activity was 65 % of the initial one .
as a result of immobilization ph optimum remained unchanged whereas the temperature optimum decreased from 65 degrees to 50 degrees .
the seemings km of the immobilized enzyme varied insignificantly as compared with km of the soluble enzyme .
[ conditions for splitting protodioscine -- the main glycoside from tribulus terrestris l. by the enzymatic preparation from aspergillus niger bkmt-33 ] .
the conditions for splitting protodioscine -- the main steroid saponine isolated from tribulus terrestris l. by the enzymic preparation of aspergillus niger str .
bkmt-33 were investigated .
the optimal conditions were found to be as follows : ph 4-5 , temperature 30-37 degrees ( the substrate concentration -- 5 mg % , concentration of the enzymic preparation -- 1 % ) .
under these conditions the enzymolysis continued 24 hours .
mg+2 and k+ ions accelerated the reaction twice .
as a result of the enzymic hydrolysis dioscine and trilline were obtained .
this indicates beta-glucosidase and alpha-rhamnosidase activities of the enzymic complex isolated from aspergillus niger str .
bkmt-33 .
regulation of synthesis of glutamine synthetase by adenylylated glutamine synthetase .
we have examined three mutants of klebsiella aerogenes whose genetic lesions ( glnb , glnd , and glne ) are in loci unlinked to the structural gene for glutamine sythetase ( glna ) and in which the control of both the level and state of adenylylation of glutamine synthetase is altered .
each mutation alters a different component of the adenylylation system of glutamine synthetase [ l-glutamate : ammonia ligase ( adp-forming ) , ec 6.3.1.2 ] .
inability of the cell to deadenylylate glutamine synthetase ( glnb and glnd ) greatly decreases its production , while inability to adenylylate glutamine sythetase ( glne ) results in its constitutively high production .
these results together with our previous results indicate that adenylylated glutamine synthetase inhibits the transcription of glna .
neuronal properties of hybrid neuroblastoma x sympathetic ganglion cells .
clonal mouse neuroblastoma cells without tyrosine 3-monooxygenase [ ec 1.14.16.2 ; tyrosine hydroxylase ; l-tyrosine , tetrahydropteridine : oxygen oxidoreductase ( 3-hydroxylating ) ] activity were fused with normal cells from embryonic mouse sympathetic ganglia .
one of the 37 hybrid cell lines obtained possesses high tyrosine 3-monooxygenase activity and synthesizes dopamine .
these cells also have excitable membranes and generate action potentials in response to electrical stimuli .
thus hybrid cells , generated by fusion of neuroblastoma cells with normal cells from the nervous system , can acquire neural properties not found with the parental neuroblastoma cells .
regulation of ferredoxin-catalyzed photosynthetic phosphorylations .
under aerobic conditions that are likely to prevail in chloroplasts in vivo , the optimal concentration of ferredoxin for cyclic photophosphorylation was found to be equal to that required for nadp reduction and about one-tenth of that needed for cyclic photophosphorylation under anaerobic conditions .
in the presence of ferredoxin and nadp , cyclic photophosphorylation operated concurrently with noncyclic photophosphorylation , producing an atp : nadph ratio of about 1.5 .
the effective operation of ferredoxin-catalyzed cyclic photophosphorylation by itself required a curtailment of the electron flow from water which was accomplished experimentally by the use of either an inhibitor or far-red monochromatic light .
an unexpected discovery was that the operation of cyclic photophosphorylation by itself was also regulated by a back reaction of nadph and ferredoxin with two components of chloroplast membranes , component c550 and cytochrome b559 .
the significance of these findings to photosynthesis in vivo is discussed .
high resolution 31p nuclear magnetic resonance studies of intact yeast cells .
high resolution 31p nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) spectra at 145.7 mhz are presented for intact yeast cells .
several peaks are resolved and assigned .
they include the middle phosphate peaks from long chain or cyclic polyphosphates .
our results are consistent with the suggestion that these polyphosphates act as a phosphate store in the cell .
we have also been able to measure cytoplasmic ph using the orthophosphate peak inside the cell , as compared with outside the cell .
the results show that yeast cells maintain their cytoplasmic ph around 6.3 .
this value is considerably higher than the acidic extracellular ph at which they normally live .
these preliminary results indicate that 31p nmr at 145.7 mhz can be a rapid , informative , and non-invasive method for probing biochemical events within living cells .
reversal of udp-galactose 4-epimerase deficiency of human leukocytes in culture .
stimulation with phytohemagglutinin of the leukocytes from six of the seven known individuals with udp-galactose 4-epimerase ( = udp-glucose 4-epimerase ; ec 5.1.3.2 ) deficiency consistently resulted in the appearance of epimerase activity in the cultured cells .
a long-term lymphoblast culture derived from one proband also contained an active epimerase enzyme .
a comparison of the properties of this enzyme with those of epimerase produced by control lymphoblast lines revealed comparable km values for udp-galactose and nad and identical behavior on polyacrylamide electrophoresis .
however , a difference in the nad requirement for heat stability at 40 degree provided some evidence for a structural defect in this enzyme .
possible explanations for the appearance of udp-galactose 4-epimerase activity in stimulated lymphocytes include an increased rate of synthesis of a mutant enzyme and a derepression of an epimerase locus during lymphocyte transformation .
beta-bungarotoxin , a pre-synaptic toxin with enzymatic activity .
beta-bungarotoxin , a pre-synaptic neurotoxin isolated from the venom of the snake bungarus multicinctus , has been shown to modify release of neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction .
in this communication , we demonstrate that beta-bungarotoxin is a potent phospholipase a2 ( phosphatide 2-acyl hydrolase , ec 3.1.1.4 ) , comparable in activity with purified phospholipase enzymes from naja naja and vipera russellii .
the phospholipase activity of beta-bungarotoxin requires calcium and is stimulated by deoxycholate .
when strontium replaces calcium , no phospholipase activity is detected .
since neuromuscular transmission is not blocked when calcium is replaced by strontium , it was possible to examine the effects of the toxin on neuromuscular transmission in the presence of strontium .
under these conditions , when the phospholipase activity should be inhibited , the toxin has little or no effect on neuromuscular transmission .
if beta-bungarotoxin owes its toxicity in part to its enzymatic activity , then it must be placed in a different class from those toxins which produce their effect by binding passively to an appropriate receptor .
isolation and characterization of an unsaturated fatty acid-requiring mutant of cultured mammalian cells .
an unsaturated fatty acid-requiring mutant derived from chinese hamster ovary ( cho ) cells has been isolated and characterized .
this mutant grows normally when oleate or other unsaturated fatty acids are supplemented in the growth medium .
unlike the wild-type cho cells , growth stops when medium is deprived of unsaturated fatty acid .
whole cell pulse experiments with [ 14c ] acetate or [ 14c ] stearate indicate that the mutant is defective in unsaturated fatty acid synthesis .
enzyme assays in vitro show that the enzymatic defect of the mutant is localized to the microsomal stearoyl-coa desaturase .
dna single-strand breaks during repair of uv damage in human fibroblasts and abnormalities of repair in xeroderma pigmentosum .
the method of dna alkaline elution was applied to a study of the formation and resealing of dna single-strand breaks after irradiation of human fibroblasts with ultraviolet light ( uv ) .
the general features of the results were consistent with current concepts of dna excision repair , in that breaks appeared rapidly after uv , and resealed slowly in normal fibroblasts , whereas breaks did not appear in those cells of patients with xeroderma pigmentosum ( xp ) that are known to have defects in dna repair synthesis .
the appearance of breaks required a short post-uv incubation , consistent with the expected action of an endonuclease .
cells of the variant form of xp characterized by normal dna repair synthesis exhibited normal production of breaks after uv , but were slower than normal cells in resealing these breaks .
this difference was enhanced by caffeine .
a model is proposed to relate this finding with a previously described defect in post-replication repair in these xp variant cells .
dna crosslinking appears to cause an underestimate in the measurement of dna breakage after uv .
modifications of purified glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and other enzymes by a factor of low molecular weight abundant in some leukemic cells .
highly purified platelet glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( g6pd ; d-glucose-6-phosphate : nadp+ 1-oxidoreductase , ec 1.1.1.49 ) can be modified in its isoelectric point and its molecular specific activity by extracts of some leukemic granulocytes .
the `` g6pd modifying factors '' are relatively small molecules ( molecular weight slightly under 5000 ) , thermostable , dialyzable , and ultrafilterable .
these molecules are destroyed by various endo- and exopeptidases and by serine enzymes present in crude extracts of leukocytes and commercial preparations of ribonuclease .
the alterations of platelet g6pd due to the `` g6pd modifying factors '' are stable and not reversible by dialysis or further chromatography .
the leukemic extracts which are able to modify g6pd also can modify the electrophoretic mobility and ( or ) the enzymatic activity of purified leukocyte pyruvate kinase , 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase , and glucosephosphate isomerase .
the chemical nature of such modifications and their relationships with post-translational modifications which occur in leukemic or normal cells are discussed .
copper-induced activation of aortic lysyl oxidase in vivo .
raising day-old chicks on diets lacking copper severely depressed the activity of lysyl oxidase , a copper metalloenzyme in connective tissue .
administration of cuso4 either through the diet or through intraperitoneal injections restored the lysyl oxidase activity in aortic tissue .
two hours after the chicks received cuso4 ( 1 mg/kg ) the activity of lysyl oxidase rose rapidly to attain , within 4-6 hr , a new steady-state level which was five to 20 times higher than the basal ( saline-injected ) activity .
twenty hours after copper administration , activity was still higher , in some experiments double that achieved at 6 hr .
very low amounts of cycloheximide injected intraperitoneally 45 min before and 3 hr after copper suppressed the activation response by two-thirds .
cycloheximide given 2 or 4 hr after the copper was only one-half as effective .
actinomycin d caused only a 10-15 % inhibition of the copper-induced activation .
the data suggest that copper is a key regulator of lysyl oxidase activity in aorta and may in fact be a major determinant of the steady-state levels of the enzyme in that tissue .
evidence that acyl coenzyme a synthetase activity is required for repression of yeast acetyl coenzyme a carboxylase by exogenous fatty acids .
the cellular content of acetyl-coa carboxylase [ acetyl-coa : carbon-dioxide ligase ( adp-forming ) , ec 6.4.1.2 ] in saccharomyces cerevisiae is reduced by the addition of long-chain fatty acids to the culture medium .
mutant strains of s. cerevisiae defective in acyl-coa synthetase [ acid : coa ligase ( amp-forming ) , ec 6.2.1.3 ] were isolated and used to determine whether fatty acid itself or a metabolite of fatty acid is more directly responsible for the repression of acetyl-coa carboxylase .
cells of the mutant strains were capable of incorporating fatty acid to an extent comparable to that observed with the wild-type strain , but they accumulated markedly more of the incorporated fatty acid in the nonesterified form than did the wild-type cells .
the level of acetyl-coa carboxylase activity in the mutants , in contrast to that in the wild-type strain , was hardly affected by the addition of fatty acids to the medium .
these results indicate that the activation of exogenous fatty acid is required for the repression of acetyl-coa carboxylase , supporting the view that the repressive effect is mediated by some compound metabolically derived from fatty acid .
glutathione and gamma-glutamyl cycle enzymes in crypt and villus tip cells of rat jejunal mucosa .
villus tip cells and crypt cells of rat jejunal mucosa were separated by the planning procedure of imondi et al. and were studied with respect to their activities of the enzymes of the gamma-glutamyl cycle and glutathione content .
the villus tip cells exhibit much higher gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activities than do the crypt cells : thus , gamma-glutamyl trnaspeptidase appears to be a villus-specific enzyme .
gamma-glutamyl cyclotransferase and the enzymes required for glutathione synthesis are not specifically localized to either the crypt or villus tip cells but are present in both .
the crypt cells have a high concentration of glutathione ( 4-5 mm ) comparable to the levels found in liver and kidney ; in contrast , the villus tip cells have much lower concentrations .
on fasting , the glutathione concentration decreased markedly in both villus tip and crypt cells ; feeding of protein , but not of sucrose , led to increased glutathione concentrations .
the migration of cells from the undifferentiated crypt cell region to the villus tip is associated with structural and biochemical changes that equip the cell for its mature functional activities , which include transport .
the present findings indicate that such cellular differentiation and migration is associated with a marked increase in gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity and in the utilization of glutathione .
maturation of neuroblastoma cells in the presence of dimethylsulfoxide .
addition of dimethylsulfoxide at concentrations of 1 % and 2 % ( vol/vol ) to cells of mouse neuroblastoma clone nie-115 in the confluent phase of growth resulted in the production of morphologically differentiated cultures with extensive process formation .
cell maintained in 2 % dimethylsulfoxide remained in a stable nondividing condition for periods of up to 4 weeks .
a high degree of electrical excitability was found in these cells , but there was no clear correlation of this property with the level of induction of either acetylcholinesterase ( acetylcholine hydrolase ; ec 3.1.1.7 ) or tyrosine hydroxylase [ l-tyrosine , tetrahydropteridine : oxygen oxidoreductase ( 3-hydroxylating ) ; ec 1.14.16.2 ] .
in addition , intracellular levels of cyclic 3':5'-amp were not elevated in fully morphologically and electrically differentiated cells .
while cell division was markedly inhibited by 2 % or higher concentrations of dimethylsulfoxide , at 1 % growth continued at a somewhat slowed rate and such cultures exhibited enhanced process formation and electrical activity for a relatively short period .
high concentrations ( 3 % or 4 % ) of dimethylsulfoxide totally suppressed process formation and did not result in increased excitability , but cells maintained high resting potentials .
the results suggest that the development of the excitable membrane in neuroblastoma cells may be expressed independently of neurospecific enzyme induction , and does not require a sustained elevation of cyclic 3':5'-amp levels .
properties of a toxin from the sea anemone stoichacis helianthus , including specific binding to sphingomyelin .
stoichactis helianthus toxin , a protein derived presumably from the nematocysts , was purified to homogeneity .
it has a molecular weight of about 16,000 , an isoelectric ph of 9.8 , and it contains approximately 3.7 % carbohydrate .
it is powerfully hemolytic for erythrocytes derived from a variety of animal species , those of the cat being the most sensitive and those of the guinea pig the most resistant .
the toxin is lytic also for rabbit blood platelets , and it destroys cultured fibroblasts but is inactive for several kinds of bacterial protoplasts and spheroplasts .
the hemolytic activity is specifically inhibited by sphingomyelin , and it is proposed that this phospholipid is the constituent of the membrane which functions as receptor for the toxin .
supporting evidence includes the findings that enzymes known to destroy sphingomyelin ( a ) prevent erythrocyte membranes from inhibiting hemolysis , and ( b ) render erythrocytes resistant to lysis by the toxin .
the mechanism underlying hemolysis may involve translocation of membrane sphingomyelin by virtue of a specific affinity of the coelenterate protein for this phospholipid .
mechanistic studies of glutamine synthetase from escherichia coli : kinetic evidence for two reaction intermediates in biosynthetic reaction .
fast reaction techniques were used to study the kinetics of protein fluorescence intensity changes that are associated with the reactions of unadenylylated escherichia coli glutamine synthetase [ l-glutamate : ammonia ligase ( adp-forming ) , ec 6.3.1.2 ] with its substrates .
it was established that the synthesis of glutamine occurs by a stepwise mechanism .
during the catalytic process two fluorometrically distinct intermediates were observed .
both forward and reverse rate constants which lead to the formation and consumption of these intermediates were evaluated .
the catalytic rate constant , kc , which was calculated from these rate constants agrees well with the values of kc which were determined by direct measurement of the overall biosynthetic activities by means of stopped-flow technique or the steady-state assay method .
molecular mechanism of inhibition of firefly luminescence by local anesthetics .
the kinetics of the action of local anesthetics upon firefly luciferin and luciferase systems is presented .
clinical concentrations of local anesthetics inhibited this atp-induced luminescence in a dose-dependent manner .
from the effects of temperature and ph upon the inhibitory action of the local anesthetics , it is concluded that hydrophobic ligand-enzyme interaction is the predominant cause of the inhibition , but hydrophilic interaction also contributes to the inhibition to a lesser degree .
a molecular theory of anesthesia is outlined which postulates that release of electrostricted water molecules from the hydrophilic parts of the enzyme due to the protein conformational changes induced by anesthetics is the cause of the decreased luminescence .
a similar mechanism is expected to occur at the cell membrane , which probably dehydrates the sodium channel and suppresses the conductance of this ion across the membrane .
these events lead to a volume expansion of the total system , and the system becomes reactive to a pressure which reverses the anesthesia by shifting the equilibrium to the nonanesthetized original volume .
the pressure antagonism of anesthesia can be explained by this overall volume expansion and not by a mere swelling of the cell membrane .
cyclic nucleotide metabolism in compensatory renal hypertrophy and neonatal kidney growth .
cyclic nucleotide metabolism was investigated in growing kidneys of rats during compensatory hypertrophy and during neonatal development .
after unilateral nephrectomy a mild and short-lasting decrease in cyclic 3':5 '' adenosine monophosphate ( camp ) was observed in the hypertrophying kidney .
in contrast , cyclic 3':5 ' guanosine monophosphate ( cgmp ) showed a sharp decline to 20 % of control at 15 min and a rapid rise to 200-300 % above base-line at 1-72 hr .
the alterations in renal tissue levels of cgmp were associated with parallel changes in the soluble , 100,000 x g supernatant guanylate cyclase activity [ gtp pyrophosphate-lyase ( cyclizing ) : ec 4.6.1.2 ] .
no change was observed in total cgmp phosphodiesterase ( 3':5'-cyclic-nucleotide 5'-nucleotidohydrolase ; ec 3.1.4.17 ) .
in the rapidly growing kidney of newborn rats camp levels were 983 +/- 65 and 833 +/- 42 pmol/g of kidney at 4 and 7 days after birth , and increased to adult levels ( 1518 +/- 57 pmol/g ) at 21 days whereas cgmp levels were 59.8 +/- 6.8 and 92.5 +/- 13.9 pmol/g at 4 and 7 days and decreased to adult levels ( 36 +/- 1.5 ) at 21 days .
the results indicate that compensatory renal hypertrophy and neonatal kidney growth are associated with changes in camp and cgmp metabolism .
binding of calcium by dietary fibre : its relationship to unsubstituted uronic acids .
inaugural boyd orr memorial lecture .
the 30 years ' war against world hunger .
an international programme for famine relief .
hormonal regulation of fatty acid synthesis in adipose tissue through changes in the activities of pyruvate dehydrogenase ( ec 1.2.4.1 ) and acetyl-coa carboxylase ( ec 6.4.1.2 ) .
effects of diet on fatty acid metabolism .
freezing technology in the market place .
flavour -- a problem for the consumer or for the food producer ?
the aquacultural revolution .
storage and shelf life .
membrane separation processes and freeze concentration in the 1980s .
contributions of processing preservation towards the food technologies of the 1980s .
processing , catering and cooking of foods by means of electromagnetic radiation .
food process engineering .
thermal processing .
freezing and freeze-drying .
food technology and the law .
binocular interaction and intertectal neuronal connexions : dependence upon developmental stage .
visual deprivation and intertectal neuronal connexions in xenopus laevis .
otolith-controlled responses from the first-order neurons of the labyrinth of the bullfrog ( rana catesbeiana ) to changes in linear acceleration .
[ cytology and neuroendocrine relations of the pituitary of the dogfish , scyliorhinus canicula ] .
spermiogenesis of eusepia officinalis ( l. ) , loligo forbesi ( steenstrup ) and alloteuthis subulata ( l. ) ( cephalopoda , decapoda ) .
solute-solvent coupling in epithelia : contribution of the junctional pathway to fluid production .
biphasic membrane potential changes in pancreatic acinar cells following short pulses of acetylcholine stimulation .
a pharmacologically active derivative of tetrodotoxin .
membrane potential fluctuations produced by glutamate in nerve cells of the squid .
anatomy , physiology and behavioural role of sensory nerve endings in the cement gland of embryonic xenopus .
the nature of the prolonged endplate depolarization in anti-esterase treated muscle .
direct measurement by ph-microelectrode of the ph microclimate in rat proximal jejunum .
the composition of tracheal mucus and the nervous control of its secretion in the cat .
effects of denaturants on the sweet-tasting protein monellin .
effects of the denaturants urea and guanidine-hcl on the sweet-tasting protein monellin have been studied .
the ph at which monellin is initially treated with denaturant is an important factor in retention of sweetness , but the ph maintained during subsequent removal of denaturant by dialysis has no effect on activity .
recovery of sweetness of denaturant-treated monellin is favored when denaturation occurs at acid ph .
monellin treated with either 6 m guanidine-hcl or 8 m urea at acid ph retains all of its sweetness following removal of denaturant , but urea treatment at neutral ph leads to some irreversible loss of sweetness .
monellin precipitates from solution under some conditions during removal of denaturant by dialysis , and the precipitated protein is no longer sweet .
precipitation is least under acid conditions .
aggregated protein was demonstrated by gel filtration chromatography .
the single sulfhydryl group of monellin was not demonstrable in the precipitated protein , having apparently become oxidized during denaturation and formation of the aggregated protein .
the data support the hypothesis that the tertiary structure is important in the ability of monellin to elicit a sweet sensation .
thyroxine deiodination associated with nadph-dependent lipid peroxidation in a submicrosomal system .
a lipoprotein present in trypsin-treated microsomes can be oxidized with formation of malondialdehyde in a system which contains nadph , ferric ion-adp complex , nadph-cytochrome c reductase and a factor .
this factor , a mixture of peptides , can be isolated from hepatic microsomes by trypsin digestion and successive gel filtration through sephadex g-100 and g-25 columns .
lipid peroxidation in this system catalyzes the deiodination of thyroxine , as does nadph-dependent lipid peroxidation in fresh hepatic microsomes .
thyroxine inhibits lipid peroxidation as it is deiodinated in this system .
effect of environmental ph on adenovirus-associated virus .
the influence of environmental ph on aav was studied in infectious virus titrations , induction of cf antigens production of infectious virus , induction of immunofluorescent stainable antigen , and aggregation of the viral particles .
the ph of the medium was found to influence the titer of virus stocks in that less virus was registered at acid ph's , giving differences of up to 105 tcid50 in hek and hep-2 cells .
less infectious virus was produced in kb cells , and decreased amounts of cf antigen appeared at acid ph's .
however , increased levels of detectable intracellular fa antigen appeared at acid ph's .
electron microscopic examination of aav particles negatively stained at various ph's showed increasingly large aggregates of particles as the ph was lowered .
under the acid conditions studied , the adenovirus helper and cell activities were only slightly suppressed , with the greatest effect due to aggregation of the virus particles .
the effect of dexamethasone on urinary acidification .
although it is well recognized that mineralocorticoids enhance renal acid excretion , the effect of glucocorticoids on renal acidification is unclear .
oral administration of dexamethasone to six healthy volunteers for 1 week at a daily dose of 4.5 mg was associated with mild respiratory alkalosis and a small but statistically significant increase in baseline urine ph .
however , neither the ability to lower urine ph nor to excrete titratable acid and ammonium after nh4cl acid-loading was altered .
administration of a single intravenous dose of dexamethasone sodium phosphate ( 7.5 mg ) was associated with a significant rise in urine ph and potassium excretion and decreased titratable acid , ammonium , and phosphorus excretion in the absence of changes in blood acid-base status , creatinine clearance , or urine flow .
modification of graft-versus-host disease with con a and preimmunization .
a rapid method for measuring guanylate cyclase activity in mammary tissue .
a simple and rapid method for measuring guanylate cyclase activity in broken cell preparations of biological tissues is described .
this method employs the rate of conversion of [ 32p ] gtp to [ 32p ] cyclic-gmp .
the product of this reaction is isolated by ion-exchange chromatography and by a znso4-ba ( oh ) 2 precipitation at ph 5.7 .
using this method , about 30-50 samples can be assayed for guanylate cyclase activity during a 5-6 hr period .
the characteristics of this enzyme in the mammary gland were found to be similar to those described for other tissues using different methods for measuring guanylate cyclase activity .
guanylate cyclase and cyclic-gmp phosphodiesterase activities in mammary glands of mice during pregnancy and lactation .
guanylate cyclase and cyclic-gmp phosphodiesterase activities were measured in homogenates of mammary glands from virgin , pregnant , and lactating mice .
guanylate cyclase activities increased 35 % in mammary tissues during pregnancy , and a further 40 % increase was observed during lactation .
cyclic-gmp phosphodiesterase activity also increased during pregnancy but activities were not different in glands from lactating mice vs glands from pregnant mice .
these results are discussed with regard to a possible role of cyclic-gmp in regulating lactational processes .
cyclic-amp and pancreatic bicarbonate secretion in response to secretin in dogs .
in anesthetized dogs given secretin intravenously in doses doubling every 60 min and ranging from 0.5 to 8 units per kg body weight per hr , cyclic-amp levels in pancreatic tissue rose continuously , whereas dna concentrations were slightly decreased .
bicarbonate concentrations and bicarbonate outputs , cyclic-amp tissue concentrations and bicarbonate outputs , as well as cyclic-amp tissue concentrations and juice outputs , were significantly correlated .
in conscious pancreatic fistula dogs , there was also a significant correlation between cyclic-amp and bicarbonate concentrations and outputs in the pancreatic juice after stimulation by exogenous secretin .
accordingly , enhanced release of endogenous secretin achieved by intraduodenal acidification led to a dose-dependent increase in bicarbonate and cyclic-amp outputs in both conscious and anesthetized dogs .
phosphodiesterase inhibitors ( aminophylline , caffeine , and papaverine ) given alone to the conscious dogs did not initiate pancreatic bicarbonate secretion , but they potentiated bicarbonate responses to exogenous secretin .
these data suggest that cyclic-amp plays a part in secretin-stimulated pancreatic secretion .
effects in the rat of intradermal injection of purified proteinases from streptococcus and serratia marcescens .
purified streptococcal proteinase and serratia proteinase are potent permeability factors in rat skin and initiate histopathological evidence of an acute inflammatory response .
these effects appear to be largely independent of terminal components of complement , histamine , and polymorphonuclear leukocytes .
effect of recurrent stress on postnatal increase of tyrosine hydroxylase .
tyrosine hydroxylase is present at birth and reaches adult levels in the hypothalamus usually during the second month .
recurrent stimulation of intrahypothalamic noradrenergic structures shortened this period of maturation in a statistically significant manner .
effect of propranolol on antinociceptive and withdrawal characteristics of morphine .
propranolol at a dose ( 10 mg/kg ) which did not alter tail-flick latency by itself , did not alter the ed50 of morphine when given 10 min prior to the narcotic .
propranolol at doses of 10 and 25 mg/kg given 10 min prior to naloxone challenge did not significantly alter the frequency of naloxone induced jumping 72 hr after morphine pellet implantation .
the ed50 of naloxone in morphine pelleted mice was not altered by treatment with propranolol at 0 , 24 , and 48 hr after pellet implantation .
naloxone caused hyperactivity in mice when administered 72 hr after morphine pellet implantation .
an injection of 25 mg/kg propranolol 10 min prior to naloxone did not block this hyperactivity .
in addition , administration of 10 mg/kg of propranolol every 8 hr to rats during withdrawal from morphine failed to alleviate the withdrawal syndrome as evidenced by changes in either body weight or water intake .
these data suggest that the beta-adrenergic blocking agent , propranolol , does not alter the antinociceptive activity or lessen the withdrawal syndrome of morphine in rodents .
increased acquisition of a complex appetitive task after msh and mif .
after daily injections of melanocyte stimulating hormone ( msh ) , msh-release inhibiting factor ( mif ) , or diluent albino rats ran a 12 choice warden maze for a palatable food reward .
rats receiving the hormones had shorter latencies and made fewer errors than controls during learning but , unlike results with simple tasks , there were no differences during extinction .
the results demonstrated that both msh and mif-i could facilitate the acquisition of an appetitive task which seemed of sufficient complexity to emphasize differences in performance .
comparison of beta-adrenoceptor blocking properties of sotalol , oxprenolol , propranolol and pindolol on rabbit intestinal smooth muscle .
adrenergic agonists produced a characteristic and definite decrease in the amplitude of spontaneous contractions and tone of the isolated rabbit jejunum .
effect of phenylephrine was abolished either by phenoxybenzamine or phentolamine .
relaxation induced by epinephrine and by norepinephrine was inhibited after combined treatment with phentolamine and propranolol .
phentolamine alone diminished the response to epinephrine and to norepinephrine , but the diminution for epinephrine was greater , indicating that epinephrine has a greater affinity for alpha- than for beta-receptors in the rabbit jejunum .
stimulation of the beta-receptors by isoproterenol was inhibited by propranolol , oxprenolol , sotalol and pindolol , but the block was incomplete .
the activity of these four beta-blockers in preventing the inhibitory response to isoproterenol was as follows : inidolol greater than or equal to oxprenolol greater than propranolol greater than sotalol .
this demonstrates the fact that not all beta-adrenergic blocking agents possess an identical pharmacologic spectrum of activity .
also it can be suggested that the beta-receptors of jejunum differ in specificity from those of other organs .
the antinicotinic effects of drugs with clinically useful sedative-antianxiety properties .
mice were given a drug per os and 2 h later were challenged with an intravenous ld95 of nicotine .
amitriptyline , imipramine , doxepin , meprobamate , chlordiazepoxide , diazepam , trifluoroperazine , haloperidol , thioridazine , chlorpromazine , phenobarbital , propranolol and diphenylhydantoin were all active in protecting mice from extensor convulsions and lethality .
iproniazid , tranylcypromine , atropine , benztropine and trimethadione were inactive .
there appears to be a relationship between blockage of nicotine-induced extensor convulsions and lethality in mice and sedative-antianxiety effects in man .
this relationship is especially good for drugs designated antidepressant , antianxiety and antipsychotic .
the jumping mechanism of xenopsylla cheopis .
i. exoskeletal structures and musculature .
the jumping apparatus of the flea , which includes highly modified direct and indirect flight muscles , is described : attention is drawn to the various specializations of the exoskeleton which stiffen the thorax and also provide the 'click ' mechanism triggering take-off .
a finger-like invagination of tall cells within the cavity of the developing pleural arch of the pharate adult secretes the resilin pad .
this is illustrated with coloured photographs .
it is suggested that winglessness of a mecopteran-like ancestor pre-adapted fleas to a parasitic life-style , and that a jumping mode of progression was a primitive feature of the whole order .
scattered throughout the siphonaptera today are species which have secondarily lost the pleural arch and with it the power to execute large jumps .
these are usually found among fleas parasitizing mammals inhabiting caves , subterranean burrows and runs , high aerial nests and snow or ice-bound habitats .
large pleural arches are associated with fleas infesting large mobile hosts .
the jumping mechanism of xenopsylla cheopis .
ii .
the fine structure of the jumping muscle .
the ultrastructure of the trochanteral depressor muscle of the oriental rat flea is described .
it is shown to be similar to that of the tubular leg muscles of other insects except in the volume and arrangement of the sarcoplasmic reticulum .
the sarcoplasmic reticulum occupies approximately 18 % of the volume of the muscle fibres .
it is in three configurations : a regular array of parallel tubules opposite the a-band , a collar of sacculi involved in the formation of the dyads at the edge of the a-band and a loosely woven arrangement of tubules around the i-band .
this tripartite arrangement of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and its large surface area is discussed in relation to the action of the muscle as the main propulsive muscle in the jump of the flea .
the jumping mechanism of xenopsylla cheopis .
iii .
execution of the jump and activity .
the flea's hind legs are the chief source of jumping power , but in species which execute large jumps , take-off is accelerated by elastic energy released from a resilin pad ( homologous with the wing hinge ligaments of flying insects ) situated in the pleural arch .
a central click mechanism , operated by a rapid twitch of the trochanteral depressor ( the starter muscle ) , synchronizes the separate sources of energy which power the jump .
cine photos confirm the morphological evidence that the flea takes off from the trochanters , not the tarsi .
the loss of wings , associated with lateral compression of the body and the shortening of the pleural ridge ( which thus lowers the position of the pleural arch ) together with modifications of the direct and indirect flight muscles , are some of the main morphological features associated with the change from a flying to a saltatorial mode of progression .
the flea's take-off basically resembles that of other panorpoid insects ( diptera , mecoptera , etc. ) .
the release of elastic energy from the pleural arch is a system by which the force used to move the wings of flying insects is rapidly fed back into the legs and adds power to the jump .
dynamic aspects of enzyme specificity .
there are two aspects of enzyme specificity : recognition of the substrate by the formation of an enzyme-substrate compound and recognition of the transition state by catalysis of the reaction .
kinetic studies with inactive substrate analogues as potential competitive inhibitors , and structural studies of their compounds with enzymes , give information about the first of these specificity elements .
comparative kinetic studies with alternative substrates give information about both .
there is a great deal of information from kinetic studies of dehydrogenases about the coenzyme specificities , substrate specificities and stereospecificities and mechanisms of these enzymes , particularly alcohol dehydrogenases .
recent x-ray diffraction studies of dehydrogenases have given insight into the molecular basis of some of their specificity elements .
an attempt is made to correlate the available kinetic and structural data for alcohol and lactate dehydrogenases .
self-assembly of biological macromolecules .
the genetic apparatus of the cell is responsible for the accurate biosynthesis of the primary structure of macromolecules which then spontaneously fold up and , in certain circumstances , aggregate to yield the complex tertiary and quaternary structures of the biologically active molecules .
structures capable of self-assembly in this range from simple monomers through oligomers to complex multimeric structures that may contain more than one type of polypeptide chain and components other than protein .
it is becoming clear that even with the simpler monomeric enzymes there is becoming clear that even with the simpler monomeric enzymes there is a kinetically determined pathway for the folding process and that a folded protein must now be regarded as the minimum free energy form of the kinetically accessible conformations .
it is argued that the denatured subunits of oligomeric enzymes are likely to fold to something like their final structure before aggregating to give the native quaternary structure and the available evidence would suggest that this is so .
the importance of nucleation events and stable intermediates in the self-assembly of more complex structures is clear .
many self-assembling structures contain only identical subunits and symmetry arguments are very successful in accounting for the structures formed .
because proteins are themselves complex molecules and not inelastic geometric objects , the rules of strict symmetry can be bent and quasi-equivalent bonding between subunits permitted .
this possibility is frequently employed in biological structures .
conversely , symmetry arguments can offer a reliable means of choosing between alternative models for a given structure .
it can be seen that proteins gain stability by growing larger and it is argued in evolutionary terms that aggregation of subunits is the preferred way to increase the size of proteins .
the possession of quaternary structure by enzymes allows conferral of other biologically important properties , such as cooperativity between active sites , changes of specificity , substrate channelling and sequential reactions within a multi-enzyme complex .
comparison is made of the invariant subunit compositions of the simpler oligomeric enzymes with the variation evidently open to , say , the 2-oxoacid dehydrogenase complexes of e. coli .
with viruses , on the other hand , the function of the quaternary structure is to package nucleic acid and , as an example , the assembly and breakdown of tobacco mosaic virus is discussed .
attention is drawn to the possible ways in which the principles of self-assembly can be extended to make structures more complicated than those that can be formed by simple aggregation of the comonent parts .
water structure and hydration .
possible structures adopted by bulk water are discussed with special reference to the possible presence of monomeric water and the detection of 'free ' -oh groups .
the way in which water tends to accommodate small hydrophobic molecules is considered , with particular reference to the clathrate theory and the phenomenon of 'structure making ' .
cage-pairing and cage-sharing processes are described .
consideration of the way water solvates cations and anions is followed by a discussion of the way these solvated ions interact with the bulk medium .
large symmetrical alkylammonium ions probably encourage clathrate cage formation , at least at low temperatures .
particular reference is made to the use of infrared , raman , ultraviolet , n.m.r. and e.s.r. spectroscopic techniques to the study of water and aqueous solutions .
drug-nucleic acid interaction : x-ray crystallographic determination of an ethidium-dinucleoside monophosphate crystalline complex , ethidium : 5-iodouridylyl ( 3'-5 ' ) adenosine .
the intercalative trypanosomal drug , ethidium bromide , forms a crystalline complex with the dinucleoside monophosphate , 5-iodiuridylyl ( 3'-5 ' ) adenosine ( iodoupa ) .
these crystals are monoclinic , space group c2 , with unit cell dimensions , a = 2.845 nm , b = 1.354 nm , c = 3.413 nm , beta = 98.6 degrees .
the structure has been solved to atomic resolution by patterson and fourier methods , and refined by full matrix least squares to a residual of 0.29 on 2017 observed reflexions .
the asymmetric unit contains two ethidium molecules , two iodoupa molecules , twenty water molecules and four methanol molecules , a total of 156 atims excluding hydrogens .
the two iodoupa molecules are held together by adenine-uracil watson-crick base-pairing .
adjacent base-pairs within this paired iodoupa structure and between neighbouring iodoupa molecules in adjoining unit cells are separated by 0.68 nm .
this separation results from intercalative binding by one ethidium molecule and stacking by the other symmetry is utilized in this model drub-nucleic acid interaction , the intercalative ethidium molecule being oriented such that its phenyl and ethyl groups lie in the narrow groove of the miniature nucleic acid double helix .
solution studies have indicated a marked sequence specificity for ethidium-dinucleotide interactions and a probable structural explanation for this has been provided by this study .
dna-rna hybridization .
interest in nucleic acid hybridization stems mainly from its great power as a tool in biological research .
it is used in several quite distinct ways .
because of the high degree of specificity that they show , hybridization techniques can be used to measure the amount of one specific sequence within a very heterogeneous mixture of sequences .
measurements of 1/10 ( 6 ) -10 ( 7 ) have been recorded .
in extension of this , various properties of a specific sequence can often be studied .
secondly , because the kinetics of nucleic acid hybridization are quite well understood , it can be used to characterize both a pure sequence and a very complex mixture of sequences , like the genome of a vertebrate .
thirdly , again because of its specificity , it can be used to measure homologies between different populations of nucleic acids .
lastly , in conjunction with other techniques , it can be used as a basis for the fractionation of nucleic acid populations and the purification of specific sequences .
specific examples of these applications are given , with special reference to the organization of the genome in higher eukaryotes .
the dynamic properties of biological membranes .
biological membranes must be viewed as highly dynamic , undergoing continuous structural fluctuations and changes in response to external perturbations .
the study of liposomes by 31 p n.m.r. and fluorescence can reveal some of the motional characteristics of the different regions in a bilayer .
asymmetric lipid distribution and how this depends on the environment is also observed by n.m.r .
the nature of the interaction of amine anaesthetics and of polypeptide antibodies with membranes is discussed in relation to their perturbing effect .
the role of lipid mobility in modulating hormone-receptor interaction is discussed with reference to the binding of thyroid stimulating hormone .
recognition at cell surfaces : phytohaemagglutinin-lymphocyte interaction .
many aspects of cell behaviour are regulated by the interaction of extracellular ligands with specific receptors exposed on the cell surface .
the receptors correspond to membrane proteins and expecially glycoproteins .
a key event in regulation is the transmission across the surface membrane of the information resulting from receptor-ligand interaction .
the activation of lymphocytes by phaseolus vulgaris phytohaemagglutinin ( pha ) provides a convenient experimental model for the study of the molecular basis of receptor-ligand interaction and the molecular consequences of interaction .
the receptor mediating lymphocyte activation by pha is probably a unique glycoprotein which is present to the extent of about 3 x 10 ( 4 ) molecules/cell .
the pha-receptor complex solubilized in 1 % sodium deoxycholate has a molecular size of about 3 x 10 ( 5 ) .
the primary event in the activation process is probably an increase in the permeability of the surface membrane to ca2+ .
this may be achieved by pha cross-linking ( 'patching ' ) the receptors to form a polar channel that permits an influx of ca2+ .
cell communication by periodic cyclic-amp pulses .
at the surface of aggregating cells of the slime mould , dictyostelium discoideum , two different sites interacting with extracellular camp are detectable : binding sites and cycl-nucleotide phosphodiesterase .
both sites are developmentally regulated .
an adequate stimulus for the chemoreceptor system in d. discoideum is the change of camp concentration in time , rather than concentration per se : long-term binding of camp causes only short-term response .
the system is , consequently , adapted to the recognition of pulses rather than to steady-state concentrations of camp .
the ce , lls are , nevertheless , able to sense stationary spatial gradients and to respond to them by chemotactic orientation .
the possibility is discussed that they do so by transforming spatial concentration changes into temporal ones , using extending pseudopods as sensors .
the camp recognition system is part of a molecular network involved in the generation of spatio-temporal patterns of cellular activities .
this system controls the periodic formation of chemotactic signals and their propagation from cell to cell .
the phosphodiesterase limits the duration of the camp pulses and thus sharply separates the periods of signalling ; the binding sites at the cell surface are supposed to be the chemoreceptors .
the control of cellular activities via camp receptors can be studied with biochemical techniques with cell suspensions in which spatial inhomogeneities are suppressed by intense stirring , whereas the temporal aspect of the spatiotemporal pattern is preserved .
under these conditions it can be shown that the extracellular camp concentration changes periodically , and that the phase of the cellular oscillator can be shifted by external pulses of camp .
it can also be shown that small camp pulses induce a high output of camp , which demonstrates signal amplification , a function necessary for a cellular relay system .
recognition of metal cations by biological systems .
recognition of metal cations by biological systems can be compared with the geochemical criteria for isomorphous replacement .
biological systems are more highly selective and much more rapid .
methods of maintaining an optimum concentration , including storage and transfer for the essential trace elements , copper and iron , used in some organisms are in part reproducible by coordination chemists while other features have not been reporduced in models .
poisoning can result from a foreign metal taking part in a reaction irreversibly so that the recognition site or molecule is not released .
for major nutrients , sodium , potassium , magnesium and calcium , there are similarities to the trace metals in selective uptake but differences qualitatively and quantitatively in biological activity .
compounds selective for potassium replace all the solvation sphere with a symmetrical arrangement of oxygen atoms ; those selective for sodium give an asymmetrical environment with retention of a solvent molecule .
experiments with naturally occurring antibiotics and synthetic model compounds have shown that flexibility is an important feature of selectivity and that for transfer or carrier properties there is an optimum ( as opposed to a maximum ) metal-ligand stability constant .
thallium is taken up instead of potassium and will activate some enzymes ; it is suggested that the poisonous characteristics arise because the thallium ion may bind more strongly than potassium to part of a site and then fail to bind additional atoms as required for the biological activity .
criteria for the design of selective complexing agents are given with indications of those which might transfer more than one metal at once .
structure and specificity of antibody molecules .
the structure of the fab ' fragment of a human myeloma protein ( igg1 ( lambda ) new ) has been determined by x-ray crystallographic analysis to a nominal resolution of 0.2 nm .
each of the structure subunits corresponding to the variable and to the constant homology regions of the light and heavy polypeptide chains contains two irregular beta-sheets which are roughly parallel to each other and surround a tighly packed interior of hydrophobic side chains .
the regions of the hypervariable sequences in the light and heavy chains occur in close spatial proximity at one end of the molecule , defining the active site of igg new .
the role of these hypervariable regions in defining the size and shape of the active site of different immunoglobulins is discussed on the basis of the three-dimensional model of fab ' new .
several ligands that bind to the active centre of igg new have been used to obtain crystalline ligand-fab ' new complexes which were investigated by difference fourier maps .
these studies are analysed in terms of the biological function and specificity of antibodies .
intermolecular forces .
the nature of molecular interactions is examined .
intermolecular forces are divided into long-range and short-range components ; the former operate at distances where the effects of electron exchange are negligible and decrease as an inverse power of the separation .
the long-range interactions may be subdividied into electrostatic , induction and dispersion contributions , where the electrostatic component is the interaction of the permanent charge distributions and the others originate in the fluctuations in the distributions .
typical magnitudes of the various contributions are given .
the forces between macroscopic bodies are briefly considered , as are the effects of a medium .
some of the manifestations of molecular interactions are discussed .
antibody -- hapten interactions in solution .
this paper reports the initial progress in a research programme to identify and obtain the relative orientations , in solution , of the amino acid residues that constitute the combining site of the myeloma protein mopc 315 .
this protein has a molecular mass of 150,000 , but enzymic digestion yields the fv fragment of molecular mass 25,000 which still has the combining site intact , as judged by the affinity for dinitrophenyl haptens .
analysis of the e.s.r. spectra of a series of dinitrophenyl spin labelled haptens has allowed the dimensions , rigidity and polarity profile of the combining site to be determined .
the combining site is a cleft of overall dimensions 1.1 nm x 0.9 nm x 0.6 nm which has considerable structural rigidity .
one of these spin labels has also been used to perturb the n.m.r. spectrum of the fv and using difference spectroscopy the 270 mhz proton n.m.r. spectrum of the amino acid residues in and around the combining site has been obtained .
this spectrum contains only the equivalent of about 30 aromatic and 21 aliphatic protons .
comparison of this difference spectrum with that obtained using a diamagnetic analogue suggests that any conformational changes on hapten binding are mainly localized to the combining site .
by the use of ( n.m.r. ) difference spectroscopy the protons of the three histidine residues in the fv are observed to titrate with ph and have pka values of about 8.1 , 6.9 and 6.1 .
the histidine resonances with pka values 6.9 and 6.1 alter slightly in the presence of haptens and also appear in the spin label difference spectrum , and must therefore be in or near to the combining site .
these are assigned to his 102h and his 97l .
the existence of lanthanide binding sites on the fv , necessary for the mapping studies , has been demonstrated by measurements of gd iii water relaxation rates in fv solutions and also by the changes in the fv tryptophan fluorescence on addition of gd iii .
at ph 5.5 there is one tight binding site for the lanthanides ( kd approximately 80 mum ) but in the presence of hapten this is weakened 10-20 fold with a reciprocal effect on the hapten binding .
measurements of the gd iii quenching of the e.s.r. spectrum of a spin labelled hapten bound to fv indicate that the lanthanide site is ca. 1.5 nm from the nitroxide moiety .
molecule -- receptor specificity .
the specificity of binding between small molecules and macromolecular receptors may be studied by comparing theoretically calculated conformational potential energy surfaces of a series of chemically similar molecules which have a range of receptor binding energies and biological activities .
in this way essential requirements for binding may be highlighted , including the necessity of the small molecule adopting , or passing through , conformations which are not at energy minima and not found either in the solid state or in aqueous solution .
in particular the conformational demands of the adrenergic beta-receptor and histamine h1 receptor are considered .
enzyme substrate and inhibitor interactions .
an enzyme is designed to bind most tightly to a substrate when it is in the transition state of the reaction which the enzyme catalyses .
the consequent reduction of the activation energy of the reaction constitutes the catalytic mechanism .
the energetic contributions of different features of the interaction can only be crudely assessed , but they are dominated by entropically driven effects .
the binding site of trypsin orients the substrate so that the reacting groups are correctly placed for reaction to occur .
apart from two side chains which take part in chemical steps of the reaction , the enzyme behaves almost as a rigid body .
the full binding interactions are only developed when the substrate is in an intermediate stage of the reaction .
the tightly bound complexes of trypsin with protein trypsin inhibitors have proved amenable to structural analysis .
enzyme inhibitor interactions , which account for almost 80 kj mol-1 of interaction energy , are known fairly accurately .
the similarity of the two known trypsin inhibitor structures , close to the primary binding site , indicates a high specificity , even for this simple interaction .
in cases where no large conformational changes occur the specificity of an enzyme should be predictable from accurate knowledge of its tertiary structure .
light-induced effects on a flavoprotein , d-amino-acid oxidase .
the thermal transition of brain soluble proteins .
soluble rat brain proteins undergo a thermal reversible denaturation in the range of 20 degrees c -65 degrees c .
the thermal transition as studied in 0.25 m sucrose solution , is associated with changes in the proteins ionization capacity by the lowering of the isoionic solution phfrom a value of 6.95 at 20 degrees c to 6.55 at 65 degrees c .
the apparent enthalpy change delta h at the transition temperature ( t=50 degrees c ) is about 34 kcal , heat capacity delta cp about 1.75 kcal , and apparent entrophy change deltas 100 e.u .
the data suggest that the thermal transition is predominantly a two-state process .
a prolonged keeping of the protein solution at the increased temperature produces a partial reversibility of thermal transitions by a lowering of 5-ht cations fixing on the protein molecule .
conceptualizing depression and its treatment : comparison of psychoanalytic and behavioral approaches .
attenuation of the euphoriant and activating effects of d- and l-amphetamine by lithium carbonate treatment .
seven of nine depressed patients experienced a 4.3-fold increase in rated euphoria and activation following 30 mg d-amphetamine in a replicated dose , double blind study .
d-amphetamine was 2 to 2.3-fold more effective in producing activation , euphoria , and antidepressant effects than the same dose of l-amphetamine .
co-treatment with lithium carbonate produced a 60 % ( p less than 0.001 ) attenuation of the activation and euphoria responses to d-amphetamine .
the responses to l-amphetamine were almost completely abolished by lithium .
this study raises the possibility of lithium carbonate use as an adjunct in the treatment of amphetamine addiction .
proceedings : lorazepam in the treatment of neurosis -- an uncontrolled clinical study .
proceedings : butaclamol in the treatment of schizophrenia -- a comparison of two treatment methods .
[ possibilities of decreasing skin lesions in stationary field x-irradiation by modification of the actual ph of the skin ] .
[ adrenergic beta receptor blockaders in arterial hypertension ] .
[ septic shock. ii. therapy ] .
some metabolic approaches to improving myocardial performance during cardiac hypoxia .
four possible metabolic approaches to improving cardiac function in the presence of myocardial hypoxia have been considered .
1. it appears that there is increasing evidence which suggests that free fatty acids are harmful to the ischemic heart .
2. although it has been demonstrated that krebs cycle intermediates can result in anaerobic energy formation by the mitochondria , and under certain extreme conditions can lead to improved performance of the heart , the potential for a physiologically important effect of this approach is probably limited .
3. the protection of the ischemic or hypoxic heart by alkalosis may be a feasible approach .
the major beneficial effect appears to be exerted through more efficient conversion of energy that is already available to contractile performance rather than by increasing energy supply .
4. there appears to be some real potential for improving cardiac energy delivery via the glycolytic pathway .
calculations based on isolated rat heart studies indicate that , at 50 % oxygenation , glycolytic atp generation could totally correct for the deficit in mitochondrial atp formation .
therefore , it is in the area of overcoming the inhibition of glycolytic atp formation and tapping this potential metabolic pathway that energy delivery may be restored toward normal in the hypoxic and perhaps the borderline zone of underperfusion in the ischemic heart .
the problem of the ischemic inhibition of glycolysis may partially be overcome by creating extracellular alkalosis , but this presumption will have to be tested .
factors influencing tolerance of cardiac muscle to hypoxia .
the effects of isoproterenol , glucose , and ph on the responses of isolated rat cardiac muscle to hypoxia ( 95 % n2 , 5 % co2 ) were examined while the muscles were contracting isometrically 12 times a minute at 28 degrees c .
in the presence of 5.5 mm glucose , 10 ( -5 ) m isoproterenol and alkaline ph ( 7.8 ) improved the performance of cardiac muscle during early hypoxia .
this was followed by a premature decline in developed tension , and contracture appeared .
recovery of function following reoxygenation with 95 % o2 and 5 % co2 after a 60-min period of hypoxia was poor .
acid ph ( 6.8 ) resulted in an early decline of mechanical activity during hypoxia ; but contracture did not appear , and full recovery of developed tension was seen upon reoxygenation after 60 min of hypoxia .
when 22 mm glucose was used as substrate , the early responses to hypoxia were not altered ; but late performance was improved , contracture did not appear , and full recovery after 60 min of hypoxia was seen .
if additional glucose was added to the bath after 30 min of hypoxia ( concentration 22 mm ) , little effect on developed tension was evident ; but contracture diminished and recovery after 60 min of hypoxia was improved .
addition of 22 mm glucose allowed isoproterenol to exert its inotropic effect in the absence of late deleterious changes .
the data support the concept that factors tending to increase the utilization of limited stores of anaerobic substrate during hypoxia facilitate deterioration .
by increasing exogenous glucose , the support of inotropic activity without late adverse effects appears possible , and recovery is improved upon reoxygenation .
effects of ph and pco2 on performance of ischemic myocardium .
contractile performance of ischemic feline myocardium was evaluated under conditions of selective changes in perfusate in ph and pco2 .
a substantial increase in myocardial performance was noted when the pco2 was lowered at constant ph , and depression of performance was noted when the pco2 was increased at constant ph .
perfusate acidosis at constant pco2 resulted in depression of performance and decreased performance only after 20 min of exposure .
alkalosis did not increase performance and decreased performance transiently during mild ischemia .
these studies suggest that performance of myocardium during ischemia is closely related to tissue pco2 and is minimally related to the level of extracellular ph .
effects of inhalation anesthetics on cardiac function and metabolism in the intact dog .
in healthy , closed-chest dogs , dose-dependent depression of ventricular function was produced by the anesthetics halothane , methoxyflurane , and fluroxene , as evidence by decreases in left venticular stroke volume , stroke work , dp/dt , and an increased enddiastolic pressure .
myocardial blood flow and oxygen consumption decreased concomitantly and were correlated with aortic blood pressure decreases .
there was no change in myocardial lactate extraction with halothane and methoxyflurane , suggesting that myocardial oxygenation was adequate in spite of the decrease in blood flow .
however , even with marked increases in arterial lactate concentration during fluroxene anesthesia , extraction did not chance and , in fact , tended to decrease .
the hemodynamic effects of halothane and methoxyflurane are similar to those previously reported in man , but those of fluroxene are different .
consequently , clinical speculation from these results is not justified at this time .
tissue water and ph in experimental primary cardiomyopathy induced by isoproterenol in frog .
acute aneurysms and other morphologically defined cardiac lesions were produced in frogs by isoproterenol ( ipr ) as previously described .
samples from lesions verified in vivo and from macroscopically normal ventricular areas , together with samples from nontreated control animals , were analyzed for total water content , inulin space , phe , and phi by using dmo-14c and inulin-3h .
total cardiac tissue water content was increased in all types of lesions after ipr injection .
the highest content was found in bulging , noncontractile aneurysms .
inulin space was enlarged in all heart muscle specimens from ipr-treated animals , including those without macroscopically visible lesions .
those specimens with aneurysms showed the greatest degree of enlargement .
the ( phe-phi ) did not differ between injected and noninjected animals , and the noncontractile samples from aneurysms did not differ from other lesions and macroscopically intact areas .
in ipr-injected animals , there was no difference in phi between macroscopically damaged and nondamaged segments of ventricle wall .
on comparing these animals to controls , however , a slight shift to the alkaline side for both phi and phe was observed .
the ( phe-phi ) was higher in skeletal muscle than in heart muscle in both ipr-treated and nontreated animals .
tissue water increased in skeletal muscle after ipr injection , reflecting a change of intracellular water as inulin space was maintained .
[ internal chemoreceptors. chemical regulation of respiration ] .
[ a case report of aorto-carotid bypass with use of saphenous vein in advanced stage of aortitis syndrome ( author's transl ) ] .
[ chemoreceptor : co2 and h+ as respiratory stimuli , and central chemoreceptor ( author's transl ) ] .
[ the history of occlusive thromboaortopathy ( takaysu's and allied diseases ) ( author's transl ) ] .
[ treatment of acute schizophrenia with sulforidazine ] .
[ ophthalmologic effects of treatment with phenothiazines ] .
the role of cyclic nucleotides in central synaptic function .
[ adrenergic stimulants ( or sympathomimetic medicines ) ] .
[ therapeutic indications and side effects of beta-blocking agents and verapamil ] .
normal arterial blood gases during experimental hypertriglyceridemia in the rat .
the possible effect of high concentrations of plasma triglycerides on arterial oxygen tension was investigated in rats by infusion of lymph chylomicrons or a soybean oil emulsion ( intralipid ) .
mean triglyceride concentrations were raised from 130 to 1454 mg/100 ml without statistically significant change in arterial oxygen tension , oxygen saturation , carbon dioxide tension , or ph .
the small reduction in arterial oxygen tension , content , or saturation observed in earlier studies may have been due to inadequate stabilization of fat emulsion then available for intravenous use .
the present data suggest that high concentrations of plasma triglycerides produced by infusion of chylomicrons or intralipid do not affect arterial blood gases in the normal rat .
diagnosis of liver diseases by laboratory results and discriminant analysis .
identification of best combinations of laboratory tests .
patients with different liver diseases were studied by discriminant analysis .
groups of patients classified mainly on the basis of liver biopsy findings showed functional differences which permitted a consistent reclassification by discriminant functions using laboratory results .
optimal combinations of laboratory tests for the separation of liver diseases were defined .
different combinations were found , dependent on the subsets of liver diseases studied .
survival of rats subjected to acute anemia at different levels of erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate .
an experimental procedure was worked out in which rats were subjected to an exchange of erythrocytes , followed by acute anemia by means of hemodilution .
one group of rats received erythrocytes with a high concentration of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate ( dpg ) , and the other group was given erythrocytes with a low dpg concentration .
the survival rate was equal in the two groups .
irrespective of dpg concentration , the rats whose hemoglobin concentration reached the lowest level died .
the rats that died were also more acidotic than the others .
the results indicate that the hemoglobin concentration and the ph value were more important determinants for survival than the dpg concentrations .
the influence of bacterial superinfection on the clinical course of influenza .
studies from the influenza epidemics in stockholm during the winters 1969-70 and 1971-72 .
during two epidemics of influenza a infection in stockholm 1969-72 , 249 cases were selected for a study on the effect of bacterial superinfection .
bacterial involvement was demonstrated through cultures and serologic reactions .
the occurrence of c-reactive protein in increased amount in serum was significantly more common in the group which had the strongest indication of bacterial infection .
an increased duration of fever , and a higher incidence of pneumonia , leukocytosis and erythrocyte sedimentation rate over 50 mm/l h was also the rule in cases with bacterial involvement .
during both epidemics the bacteria most often involved were pneumococci .
evaluation of the antibiotic effect of treatment of maxillary sinusitis .
as the effect of antibiotic treatment of maxillary sinusitis has been questioned , the elimination of bacteria from sinus secretions was studied during antibiotic treatment .
penicillin v , azidocillin , tetracycline or doxycycline was administered to 54 patients with maxillary sinusitis .
samples of sinus secretion were aspirated both before treatment and 2-3 days after the onset of treatment .
when the antibiotic concentration was below the upper limit of mic for sensitivity group 1 , bacterial growth was present in practically all samples .
when the antibiotic concentration equalled or was above this limit , there was no bacterial growth in about half of the samples .
a prerequisite for antibiotic effect -- elimination of bacteria -- is that the antibiotic concentration is well above the mic of the bacteria at the site of infection .
the choice between bactericidal or bacteriostatic antibiotics appeared unimportant .
bacterial survival in the maxillary sinus despite a high antibiotic concentration in the sinus illustrates that mic values determined in the laboratory do not always mirror the sensitivity of bacteria to antibiotics in vivo .
roentgenological findings in cryptorchidism .
intravenous urography of 78 cryptorchid boys revealed no clinically significant upper urinary tract anomalies .
two boys had a rotated kidney and 2 others a double renal pelvis .
one boy had previously been operated upon because of hydronephrosis .
there thus appears to be no reason for routine intravenous urography of cryptorchid boys .
forty-two per cent of the boys had spina bifida occulta in the lumbar and sacral spine .
one case of asymptomatic congenital cardiac disease was discovered at routine chest x-ray .
semen cahracteristics before and after ligation of the left internal spermatic veins in men with varicocele .
the semen from 20 men with varicocele was studied before and after surgical correction of the varicocele .
the effect on sperm quality was only marginal and could not explain the fairly high conception rate ( 20 % ) after operation .
the recommendation that varicocele in men with long-term infertility should be eliminated by ligation of the internal spermatic veins is still justified despite the absence of positive effects on sperm quality .
psychopharmacological treatment of schizophrenia .
behavioral therapies and the treatment of schizophrenics .
plasma potassium and insulin during extracorporeal circulation using a glucose-containing pump prime .
in order to investigate the possible relationship between a glucose-containing pump prime and changes in plasma potassium during extracorporeal circulation , determinations were made of blood glucose and plasma insulin , potassium , and magnesium in 18 subjects undergoing open-heart surgery .
in 6 of the patients , the same parameters had been measured during a pre-operative glucose tolerance test .
it was found that the elimination of glucose was considerably impaired during extracorporeal circulation , in spite of high insulin levels .
during the first minutes of extracorporeal circulation , plasma potassium fell more than during the glucose tolerance test , in spite of comparable insulin levels .
it is concluded that changes in plasma potassium during extracorporeal circulation do not reflect insulin activity to any noticeable extent .
construction and evaluation of a simple membrane oxygenator for small organ perfusion .
a simple membrane oxygenator for isolated organ perfusion is described .
the membrane employed consisted of an ordinary silicone rubber tubing , 2 mm internal diameter , 0.3 mm wall thickness , the length of the tubing varying according to the required gas transfer .
when describing the capacity of the oxygenator , it was found that the maximum gas transfer rate per unit membrane surface was an inadequate measure , since this would vary with both flow rate through the oxygenator and the gas binding capacity of the perfusate .
the following formula for the function describing the relation between maximally possible change in gas concentration in the perfusate ( c ) , flow rate ( f ) and actual change in gas concentration in the perfusate ( u ) was proposed : u=c-e ( -bf ) , b being a constant specific for the gas and the membrane .
this formula was tested by a series of in vitro experiments and proved to give a valid description of the capacity of the oxygenator .
it was also found that carbon dioxide was always more easily transferred than oxygen , so that oxygen transfer capcity was the limiting factor in the use of the oxygenator .
to facilitate the construction of the right size membrane , a nomogram was constructed for oxygen transfer .
the influence of arm ischaemia and arm hyperaemia on subclavian and vertebral artery blood flow in patients with occlusive disease of the subclavian artery and the brachiocephalic trunk .
a peroperative study .
a peroperative study of blood flow and flow direction was performed in series of patients with occlusive disease of the subclavian artery .
particular attention was focused on the flow variations caused by arm ischaemia and postischaemic hyperaemia and on the effect of injection of a vasodilator into the distal subclavian artery .
the effect on blood flow and flow direction was measured with the aid of an electromagnetic flowmeter .
during arm ischaemia induced by an inflated cuff on the arm , the subclavian flow diminished , as did the vertebral artery flow when it was retrograde .
if the vertebral artery flow was anterograde , it increased during arm ischaemia .
the postischaemic hyperaemia caused an increase of the subclavian flow and of reversed vertebral flow .
if the vertebral flow was anterograde , it diminished during the postischaemic hyperaemia .
similar findings were obtained with intra-arterial injection of a vasodilator .
the large amount of blood flow passing through the vertebral artery , as well as the flow variations caused by reactive arm hyperaemia , emphasize the role of this artery as a collateral vessel to the upper limb in cases of the subclavian steal phenomenon .
spectroscopic observation of acid sulfate in atmospheric particulate samples .
infrared spectra of time- and size-classified atmospheric particulate samples collected with a inertial impactor reveal the presence of acid sulfate in the submicrometer-sized fraction .
although the degree of acidity is highly variable with time , the acidic nature of the particles is observed at all times of the day and may persist for several days in urban areas .
specific effects of neurotransmitter antagonists on ganglion cells in rabbit retina .
directionally sensitive ganglion cells in rabbit retina lose their directional sensitivity when picrotoxin , an antagonist of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid , is infused into the retinal blood supply .
strychnine , an antagonist of glycine , does not produce this effect .
other receptive field types are affected by strychnine but not picrotoxin .
inhibitory transmitters therefore have specific functions in information processing in the retina .
vascular and brain dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity in young spontaneously hypertensive rats .
dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity was higher in mesenteric vessels , adrenal glands , and serum of 3-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats but lower in the locus coeruleus than it was in the control wistar-kyoto rats .
the results support the concept that the nervous system is an important regulator of blood pressure .
protein purification : adsorption chromatography on controlled pore glass with the use of chaotropic buffers .
chromatography on controlled pore glass in combination with chaotropic buffers makes possible , in a single step , protein purifications of several hundredfold .
the new emphasis is on highly selective controllable adsorption .
the method is useful for the purification and concentration of proteins from large volumes of complex media and for the purification of proteins that are poorly soluble or tend to aggregate in aqueous solution d- ( - ) -beta-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase , a mitochondrial membrane-bound protein , several soluble proteins , and staphylococcal alpha toxin , which can be purified directly from large volumes of culture medium , are used to illustrate the method .
[ determination of barbiturates from biological material ] .
a trace quantitative analysis of barbiturates has been carried out in blood , urine , organs and in gastric and intestinal concents .
the amount of sample required for analysis is very small [ approximately 400 mul blood ] .
extraction is carried out four times with the mixture of acetone and either 1:1 ] .
the preparation of columns , packing and standards has been described .
the device used for the analyses [ chrom 3 ] is furnished with an adjusted feeding block preventing the decomposition of samples in the doser .
the column temperature is 190 degrees c , the column packing is chromaton n-aw-dmcs coated with 3 % npgs and 0.75 % trimer acid , detector fid .
[ clinical studies of cutaneous vasculitis , with special reference to the examination of various phases of polyartheritis nodosa ] .
the mechanism of the inhibition of iron absorption by tea .
previous human studies have shown that drinking tea during meals significantly inhibits the absorption of both food iron and medicinal iron .
this study provides evidence from experiments with rats that the tannins in the tea are responsible for the inhibition , probably by forming non-absorbable complexes with the iron within the intestinal lumen .
the molar ratio of tannin : iron is dependent on the ph , being 1:1 at ph 2,0 2:1 at ph 5,5 and 3:1 at ph 8,0 .
since tannins are present in many vegetable foods the formation of such complexes may be a factor in the poor availability for absorption of much food iron .
an investigation into the hepatic cytochrome p-450 catalysed metabolism of the anaesthetic fluroxene ( 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl vinyl ether ) .
the role of the different cytochromes p-450 in the metabolism of the anaesthetic agent fluroxene , and the mechanism of production of toxic effects seen after pre-treatment of the animals with pehnobarbital prior to anaesthesia , have been investigated .
male rats were anaesthetized with fluroxene , or with 2,2,2-trifluroethyl ethyl ether , or with ethyl vinyl ether in an attempt to ascertain the in vivo toxic effects of the three anaesthetic agents .
the resultant hepatic histology is reported .
a study of the binding and metabolism of fluroxene by isolated rat hepatic microsomes was also made .
we conclude that it is elevated levels of cytochrome p-450 which potentiate the toxicity of fluroxene anaesthesia in phenobarbital treated animals and that cytochrome p-448 does not bind or metabolize fluroxene .
the potential toxicity of the fluroxene molecule is considered to reside in the trifluoroethyl moiety , while the vinyl group of fluroxene appears to play a role in the observed liver damage .
sex education for spinal cord injury patients and their nurses .
direct revascularization of acute myocardial infarction by implantation of left internal mammary artery into infarcted left ventricular myocardium .
this is a preliminary report .
clearly , the internal mammary artery implanted into the infarcted anterolateral portion of the wall of the left ventricle has been of help in decreasing the size of the infarction and in maintaining the life of the dogs and normal function six hours after a large left ventricular wall myocardial infarction had been created .
more animals need to be studied at the end of six hours , eight hours , and ten hours after implantation .
more studies are needed to learn if ligation of the coronary veins at the same time as the arteries is beneficial or not .
two internal mammary arteries may act better than one when implanted side by side into a 5 by 5 centimeter infarction .
in man , both internal mammary arteries and the right gastroepiploic artery could be used to revascularize acute myocardial infarctions in the posterior and anterolateral parts of the left ventricle .
chronic anemia , wound healing , and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate .
relationships between various types of chronic anemia , wound healing , and red cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate ( 2,3 dpg ) were examined in rabbits .
wound tensile strength and energy absorption were not affected by chronic iron-deficiency anemia , the chronic hemolytic anemia caused by intravenous water infusion nor by chronic hemolytic anemia caused by intravenous water infusion nor by chronic phenylhydrazine-induced anemia .
red cell 2,3 dpg levels were increased in the anemia of iron deficiency and were normal in the rabbits with chronic phenylhydrazine-induced anemia at the time of wound excision but were low following phynylhydrazine injection .
the results show that chronic anemia per se does not affect the tensile strength and energy adsorption of wound healing .
the findings suggest that the wound healing process may differ in certain types of anemia .
[ effect of blood ph variations on the bronchodilator effects of salbutamol in cats ] .
effects of beta-adrenergic stimulating and blocking agents on the adrenaline response and adenyl cyclase activity of leukocyte in monkey and human being .
using the method in which leukocyte suspensions were incubated with naf or metaproterenol at 30 degrees c for 15-30 min to allow them to convert 3h-atp ( 10 muci ) to 3h-cyclic amp , followed by separation of the formed 3h-cyclic amp by common chromatography , the leukocyte adenyl cyclase activity of monkeys and human beings was measured with high reproducibility .
the oral administration of metaproterenol increased the leukocyte adenyl cyclase activity which was stimulated by naf and decreased the count of peripheral eosinophils in some of the monkeys .
in the beta-adrenergic blockade of the monkey which was made by administration of propranolol , the leukocyte adenyl cyclase activity significantly decreased .
the leukocyte adenyl cyclase from patients with coronary heart disease also decreased after oral medication with propranolol .
human erythrocyte carbonic anhydrase b and c in chronic obstructive lung disease .
the levels of carbonic anhydrase b and c isozymes in human red cells were determined using a quantitative immunological technique in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease .
a significant increase in the level of carbonic anhydrase b was observed in these patients , while the level of carbonic anhydrase c did not change substantially .
positive correlations were found between the level of carbonic anhydrase b and arterial co2 tension and plasma hco3 concentration .
a negative correlation was observed between the levels of carbonic anhydrase b and blood ph .
these findings suggest that the synthesis or degradation of carbonic anhydrase b isozyme is affected by arterial co2 tension or plasma hc03 concentration .
the clinical significance was also discussed in relation to these isozyme levels in red cell .
fluorocarbons and general metabolism in the rat , rabbit , and dog .
the mechanism of action and treatment of palytoxin poisoning .
effect of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol on rat liver microsomal lipid peroxidation .
hemodynamic effects of aerosol propellants .
ii .
pulmonary circulation in the dog .
the inhalation of trichlorofluoromethane ( fc11 ) , dichlorotetrafluoroethane ( fc114 ) and dichlorodifluoromethane ( fc12 ) caused a reduction in mean aortic blood pressure but only fc11 and fc114 caused a reduction in mean pulmonary arterial pressure .
the primary cause of the fall is a decrease in pulmonary blood flow .
when blood flow to a lobe is kept constant and the adrenergic alpha receptors are blocked by injection of phentolamine , the inhalation of fc11 caused vasodilation .
in the intact circulation , the vasodilation is masked by release of catecholamines which constrict the pulmonary blood vessels .
spectral properties of bitis gabonica venom phospholipase a2 in the presence of divalent metal ion , substrate and hydrolysis products .
isolation and characterization of four toxic protein fractions from the sea anemone anemonia sulcata .
purification of three polypeptides with neuro- and cardiotoxic activity from the sea anemone anemonia sulcata .
isolation of different types of nematocyst from the cubomedusan chironex fleckeri .
[ steel dental prostheses made with microplasma soldering ] .
human placental delta5-3beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity ( delta5-3beta hsdh ) : intracellular distribution , kinetic properties , retroinhibition and influence of membrane delipidation .
delta5-3beta hsdh activity has been assayed either by spectrophotometric method or by use of radioactive substrates .
the enzymatic activity is equally distributed between mitochondrial and microsomal fractions verified by electronic microscopy .
the specific activity is comparable in both fractions , as well as the optimal ph and the km for nad and for the substrates .
the delta5-3beta hut optimal ph , specific activity and sensitivity to the inhibitory action of various steroids are different when c19 and c21 steroids are used as substrates .
estrogens and cyclic amp have also an inhibitory action on the oxidation of c21 steroids .
treatment of microsomal or mitochondrial membranes with phospholipase a releases fatty acids ( mainly arachidonic ) and decreases the enzymatic activity .
`` adsorbtion '' of the fatty acids on bovine serum albumin partially reactivates the delta5-3beta hsdh .
observations on the mechanism of antitumour resistance induced by the graft-versus-host reaction .
failure of carrageenan to affect graft-versus-host reactivity in the rat .
a method for the quantitation of the localized graft-versus-host response in the mouse by uptake of 125iudr .
the effect of tilorone on the local graft-versus-host reaction in rats .
[ hydrolysis of insoluble collagen of bull bones by streptomyces griseus crystalline protease ] .
hydrolysis of collagen was studied in the bull bone tissues by the str. griseus crystalline protease .
the amount of collagen hydrolyzed by it composed 6.6 % and 16 % after 4-hour and 6-hour hydrolysis , respectively .
when the enzyme : substrate ratio is 1:50 hydrolysis proceeds most intensively ; with a decrease in the ratio up to 1:1000 the average amount of peptides increase from 2.6 up to 4 amino acidic residua , respectively .
under conditions of denaturated collagen hydrolysis the content of hydroxyproline in solution as compared with the native one increases ; in this case the links with the presence of imino-acids are easier to split , the more resistant being those formed by hydroxyproline .
within the limit of 20-45 degrees c hydrolysis of protein intensifies with a temperature rise .
within the ph range of 5.0-11.0 the maximal amount of alpha- nh2-groups and hydroxyproline is observed at ph 8.5 , the minimal -- at ph 5.0 .
hydroxyproline in the composition of peptides appears at the beginning of hydrolysis whereas the free one of enzymes of the longer effect 24 h after the beginning of the experiment composes 12.2 % of its total content in the solved products .
in the insoluble part of the substrate after 3-hour hydrolysis tyrosine composes less than 25 % of its initial amount in protein whereas phenyl alanine -- over 70 % .
after 6-hour hydrolysis the solved part of the system contains about 30 % of alanine and 8.9 and 6 % of glycine , proline and hydroxyproline , respectively .
[ specific p-nitrophenyl phosphatase of yeast pichia guilliermondii ] .
the cells of yeast p. guilliermondii contain specific p-nitrophenyl phosphatase ( pnppase ) , the level of which depends on the cells supply with inorganic phosphorus .
partially purified enzyme is activated by ions mg2+ , co2+ and somewhat weaker -- by ions fe2+ .
with the presence of mg2+ the enzyme activity is inhibited by ions cd2+ , zn2+ , f- , be2+ , cu2+ , mn2+ , ca2+ , moo42- , fe3+ , fe2+ , inorganic phosphate as well as by edta .
a mixture ions be2+ and f- causes a complete inhibition of the activity .
ions k+ and na+ inhibit to some extent the enzymic activity , atp removes the inhibitory effect of monovalent cations .
km of pnppase is equal to 3.3-10 ( -4 ) m , the molecular weight determined by the method of gelfiltration is 60 000 .
the enzyme is the most active at 50 degrees c and ph 9,5 pnppase does not manifest the phosphotranspherase activity in tris-hc1-buffer .
[ treatment of sleep disorders with flurazepam ( dalmadorm ) , nitrazepam ( mogadon ) , and allypropymal. a controlled clinical investigation ] .
[ abuse of lorazepam ( temesta ) ] .
effect of heparin or saline dilution of blood on pco2 and ph .
the effect of different dilutions with heparin solutions or saline on blood pco2 , ph and standard bicarbonate was investigated .
blood was first equilibrated to give about 40 or 60 mmhg pco2 .
the solutions were in equilibrium with room air .
the effect on blood pco2 etc. could be fully explained by the dilution with a medium having a much lower pco2 .
thus , correction of the heparin solution to ph 7.40 and pco2 40 mmhg eliminated the effect on pco2 , ph and standard bicarbonate .
with ordinary procedure for blood heparinization ( about 2 % dilution ) the effect is practically negligible .
report on seminars on prostatic cancer in rome , may 23-25 , and in helsingborg , june 2-4 , 1975 .
diagnosis of renal tumor by gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase ( ec 2.3.2.2 ) .
a urinary enzyme pattern and kidney tissue pattern were investigated simultaneously in 117 urologic patients .
in contrast to all other renal disorders only the sixteen malignant tumors of the kidney showed a significant drop of gamma-gt in tumor tissue and urine .
so far urinary enzymology has been used only as screening test .
measurement of gamma-gt in urine , however , permits the diagnosis of kidney tumors .
bilateral testicular seminoma in intra-abdominal testes .
a seminoma of both intra-abdominal testes in a forty-five-year-old patient is reported .
discovery of the tumor was fortuitous during admission for upper lobe pneumonia .
of particular interest in this case is that seminoma was found in both undescended testes .
surgical extirpation of both degenerated testes along with prostatic utricle was performed .
the patient refused radiotherapy .
[ increasing the quality and effectiveness of veterinary measures ] .
[ prevention of sterility in cows ] .
[ study of the amniotic fluid of sheep in the normal course of pregnancy and in abortion ] .
cytologic , biochemical and immunoelectrophoretic studies were carried out of amniotic fluids in 100 ewes with normal pregnancy and 40 ewes that had miscarried .
each month of pregnancy a total of 20 and 8 animals of the two groups , respectively were studied .
it was found that the biochemical and metabolic processes taking place in the fetus lead to changes in the amniotic fluids altering the ph value , the alkali reserve , the content of potassium , calcium , phosphorus , alkaline phosphatase as well as their bactericidal activity .
more characteristic changes linked with pregnancy were observed in the cell composition of the amniotic fluids .
with advancing in age the increase in cell count was accompanied ( staining with nile blue sulfate ) with a rise of the `` orange cell '' content .
the amniotic fluids of ewes with normal pregnancy were found to contain proteins which precipitated with hyper immune sera against blood serum and kidney , heart , and placenta proteins .
in ewes that had miscarried the ph values of the amniotic fluids dropped in the months when abortions took place : 7.36 , 7.11 , 6.90 , 6.80 and 6.90 , as against 7.41 , 7.36 , 7.28 , 7.17 and 7.18 , respectively .
along with ph the alkali reserve also dropped to 37.9 in the first month and 14.20 in the fifth month .
in ewes that had miscarried in the 2nd , 3rd , and 4th month these values were 18.90 , 14.90 , and 13.80 cu .
cm , respectively .
in cases of abortions the protein composition of the amniotic fluids showed higher levels of the alfa and beta globulins .
[ adrenal-like leydig cells ( author's transl ) ] .
adrenal-like lipoid-rich leydig cells , which could be found in a cryptorchid testis , were investigated by light and electronmicroscopy .
there were nodular and diffuse proliferation of these adrenal-like cells in the interstitium of the testis .
electronmicroscopically these cells are fasciculated and characterized by large liposomes , many tubulovesicular mitochondria , and a large smooth endoplasmatic reticulum .
but the presence of crystals of reinke in these cells underlined their relationship to leydig cells .
the clinical history of this case is characterised by an extreme adipositas ( 167 kg ) and high urinary estrogenexcretion .
this excretion could be suppressed with dexamethasone and stimulated with hcg .
after orchiectomy estrogen excretion decreased for 4 months and then increased again , after acth stimulation performed by reason of adrenal insufficiency .
at this time there is no evidence of adrenal tumor ; in the contralateral , scrotal testis , spermiogenesis and leydig cells are without pathologic changes as revealed by biopsy .
studies on lumbo virus replication .
i. rna-dependent rna polymerase associated with virions .
self-assembly of protein from a flexuous virus .
the decay of long-lived photoproducts in the isolated bullfrog rod outer segment : relationship to other dark reactions .
[ properties of partially purified atp desaminase from actinomyces n4 antibioticus ] .
three active fractions of atp desaminase from actinomyces n4 of type antibioticus were obtained by gel filtration through sephadex g-200 .
some properties of each fraction were studied : effect of ph and mg2+ , substrate specificity , effect of ph on km .
the enzyme studied could be used for preparation of itp , idp , imp , inosine and hypoxantine .
[ changes in the content of ribosomal rna and the activity of ribosomal rnaase in the brain under natural physiological conditions ] .
optimal activity of rnaase from brain ribosomal fraction was observed at ph 5.4 and ph 7.9 .
after alimentary and conditioned-alimentary stimulation content of rrna was significantly increased in brain , but the rnaase activity was decreased more than two-fold .
after conditioned-alimentary inhibition content of rrna was slightly decreased as compared to experiments with alimentary and conditioned-alimentary stimulation , but it was distinctly higher than in control .
as compared with alimentary stimulation in the conditioned-alimentary stimulation the rnaase activity was increased at ph 5.4 and decreased at ph 7.9 .
[ effect of the antibiotic d-cycloserine and its dimer on the activity of tyrosine aminotransferase in liver tissue of intact , adrenalectomized and hypophysectomized rats ] .
in a period of lowest day activity of tyrosine aminotransferase , within 6-8 days after bilatheral adrenalectomy , the enzyme activity was decreased by about 20 % as compared with an adequate control .
at the same time , within a day and seven days after hypophisectomy , in rat liver tissue the enzyme activity was increased , approximately two-fold as compared with the normal state .
within four hrs after intraperitoneal administration into intact fasting rats at a dose of 2-2.5 g per 1 kg of body weight d-cycloserine and its dimer caused an induction of tyrosine aminotransferase by 75 % and 180 % , respectively .
induction of the enzyme by d-cycloserine and its dimer was inhibited by actinomycin d ; the phenomenon was not observed in adrenalectomized rats .
within a day after hypophisectomy d-cycloserine did not cause the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase in rat liver tissue ; to the contrary , the dimer of d-cycloserine caused induction of the enzyme , comparable to the acth effect , in liver tissue of hypophisectomized rats .
[ analysis of inhibition in pathways of nadp.h2 and nad.h2 oxidation in liver tissue microsomes ] .
microsomal complexes of electron transfer were resistant to typical inhibitors of mitochondrial pathway of electron transport .
in oxidation of nadp.h2 there were at least three point of molecular o2 reduction : nadp.h2-specific flavoprotein , fe2+ participating in reactions of peroxidation of unsaturated fatty acids and cytochrome p-450 .
efficiency of cytochrome p-450 inhibitors could not be evaluated by polarography as in the pathway several sites of molecular o2 activation were observed .
in oxidation of nadp.h2 estimation of the rate of electron transfer reactions was carried out by monitoring of velocity of o2 absorption in presence of edta ( inhibitor of the reaction of peroxidation ) because about 50 % of the total oxygen were utilized only in the process where nadp.h2 was oxidized .
nad.h2 oxidation , inhibited with edta , was activated by addition of ca2+ .
[ the effect of hydrocortisone and insulin on the activity and isoenzyme of tyrosine-alpha-ketoglutarate transaminase in cytostructures of rat liver ] .
single administration of hydrocortisone or insulin into rats ( body weight 200 g ) and also combined treatment of the animals with the hormones at large doses caused a distinct increase in activities of anode and cathode isoenzymes of tyrosine-alpha-ketoglutarate transaminase in soluble fraction ; total activity of the enzyme was also increased in mitochondria of rat liver tissue .
[ changes in cerebrospinal fluid lactate and pyruvate levels during brain surgery under fluotane anesthesia ] .
the lactate and pyruvate content in the arterial blood and csf of 24 patients operated on the brain under fluothane anesthesia with artificial ventilation of the lungs was measured .
towards the end of the operation and anesthesia a sizably elevated lactate level and accumulation of its excess in the blood were noted , these shifts having been more marked with hypocapnic ventilation of the lungs .
an increased concentration of lactate and pyruvate in the cerebrospinal fluid was not attended by accumulation of lactate excess .
[ relationship between enterotoxin accumulation and the quantity of pathogenic staphylococci in cooked meat ] .
[ enterococcal survival in forcemeat preserved in polymer films and in cutlets made from it ] .
the available data suggest that at 2 degrees and 5 degrees with a 12-day long storage in unpacked and in polymeric film packed forcemeat there occurs no propagation of the enterococci .
at 22-24 degrees the multiplication of str. faecalis var. liquefaciens proceeded similarly both in packed and unpacked forcemeat .
when the temperature in the central part of the cutlets prepared from the enterococci-contaminated forcemeat reaches 7-80 degrees the bulk of the str. faecalis var liquefaciens cells perishes , but even at 80 degrees there survive individual heat-resistant cells .
[ comparative study of aujeszky's disease virus reproduction in a suspension of poultry embryonic cells and tissues ( author's transl ) ] .
reproduction of aueski disease virus in suspension cultures of trysinized cells and mechanically minced tissue of chick , duck and quail embryos was compared .
the optimal conditions for cultivation of vaccine and virulent strains of virus in these systems were determined .
the advantages and prospects of using suspension cultures of minced avian embryo tissue for preparation of virus materials with high biological activity and in large volumes in comparison with trypsinized cell suspensions were demonstrated .
rapid desensitization of a needle phobia by participant modeling .
[ drug therapy of hypertension ] .
[ the significance of oxygen transport function in preserved erythrocytes for patients ] .
[ synaptic atpases and the secretion of mediators ] .
[ problem of the multiple-connected regulation of respiratory indices ( ph , po2 , pco2 ) of the body ] .
[ a pharmacologic analysis of preparatory mechanisms of stereotyped activity in dogs ] .
in dogs with elaborated rhythmic and mozaic stereotypes of secretory and motor situational conditioned reflexes specific features were revealed in the action of some neurotropic drugs ( amizyl , amedine , diphacil , pediphene , chlorpromazine and sodium oxybutyrate ) on preparatory ( latent ) conditions of excitation and inhibition , appearing in the stabilized systems of reflexes .
pharmacological analysis has pointed to the predominantly cholinergic nature of preparatory and trigger mechanisms of alimentary conditioned activity .
the blockade of m-cholinoreceptors ( by means of amizyl and amedine ) weakens or eliminates the preparatory conditions appearing in a dynamic stereotype and disturbs the trigger reactions within three to ten days .
a pediphene blockade of h-cholinoreceptors intensifies the preparatory states .
[ determination of gsh-dh activity ( e.c.1.8.5.1 ) presence of the enzyme in different wheat varieties ( author's transl ) ] .
2,6-dichlorophenol-indophenol is more stable in 75 % ethanol than in aqueous solution and ascorbic acid reacts considerably faster in this media than glutathione .
the activity determination of glutathione : dehydroascorbic acid oxidoreductase was based on these observations by a photometric measurement of the ascorbic acid resulting from the catalysis .
extracts from various types of wheat were tested and relatively high enzyme activities were found .
[ the distribution of benorylate in plasma , synovial fluid and synovial tissue in rheumatoid arthritis ] .
the authors report on the drug benorylate which is available in the federal republic under the name of benortan ( 4-acetamidophenyl-2-acetoxybenzoat ) .
numerous examinations have shown that it is well tolerated by mouth and that it has beneficial clinical effects with few side effects .
benorylate is a neutral , fat-soluble , water-insoluble substance which upon absorption is almost completely hydrolyzed into salicylate and paracetamol .
6 patients with classical seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and with a highly active synovialitis of one or both knee joints not previously treated received 4 g of a 40 % benorylate suspension orally twice daily over a period of 9-14 days .
on different days at exactly determined times of drug administration blood , and on the day of synovectomy synovial fluid and synovial tissue , were taken and frozen to - 70 degrees c and subsequently examined as to the content of salicylate , paracetamol , and unchanged benorylate .
the plasma levels of salicylate and paracetamol were generally distinctly higher than the concentrations of these metabolites in the synovial fluid .
benorylate which is practically not detectable in blood is found in the synovial tissue and is detectable in greatest quantities in the most inflamed synovial villi .
benorylate can probably penetrate into the synovial membrane like its metabolites salicylate and paracetamol ; it remains , however , to be examined whether the metabolites are distributed differently in different synovial areas ( active inflamed and unattacked synovial tissue , respectively ) in the same way as benorylate per se .
[ dynamics of neuro-humoral reactions of resistant and capacitive vessels in the process of adaptation to conditions of high altitude. 1. reflective reactions ( experimental study ) ] .
[ change of cellular composition of blood and erythropoietic activity of blood serum under the effect of constant magnetic field in high altitude ( experimental study ) ] .
[ diurnal excretion of corticosteroids in chronic liver diseases ] .
[ immunofluorescence , bacteriological and patho-morphological studies of the organs of respiration of children who died of acute pneumonia ] .
[ chemical analysis of kidney calculi ] .
[ diagnosis of spheroidal formations localized in the upper segment of the lower pulmonary lobe ( c6 ) ] .
[ oncological service in kirghizia ] .
[ certain problems of diagnosis and clinical course of nephroptosis ] .
[ ultrasonic test in evaluation of the function of the eustachian tube ] .
[ improvement of the method of preparation of biogenic prosthesis ] .
[ principles and certain errors of daily isoserological blood tests ] .
[ x-ray diagnosis of multiple progressive ossifying myositis ] .
[ objectives of public health economics ] .
[ georgii fedorovich lang - founder of soviet therapeutic school ] .
[ boris fabianovich shagan ] .
[ lev petrovich pressman ( on his 75th birthday ) ] .
[ effectiveness of use of cytological method of examination in mass preventive screening of the female population of the republic ] .
[ dynamics of neuro-humoral reactions of resistant and capacitive vessels in the process of adaptation to high altitude conditions. reactions to electric stimulation of the sympathetic nerves. 2. ( experimental study ) ] .
[ effect of treatment with strophanthin k of chronic cardiac insufficiency in patients with mitral valve defect , living in the mountain area ] .
[ rate of distribution of pulse wave in patients with ii-a stage hypertensive disease treated with artificial iodo-bromide baths under conditions of medium ( cholpon-ata health resort ) and low ( city of frunze ) altitudes ] .
[ clinical characteristics of intestinal coli infection in the city of frunze ] .
[ immunoglobulin content in newborn infants under conditions of both altitude of kirghizia ] .
[ problems of alcoholism and the tasks of public health authorities ] .
[ fractional identification of proteins of erythrocyte hemolysate subjected to disc electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gel ] .
[ study of mineral content of kidney calculi ] .
[ determination of lysozyme in blood serum by the method of diffusion in agar ] .
[ importance of co35 in the treatment of secondary hypochromic anemia in young children ] .
[ effectiveness of the vaccine of vi-antigen of salmonella typhosa in children and adolescents ] .
[ immunofluorescence method in etiological diagnosis of acute pneumonia in children ] .
[ use of interferon for prevention of acute respiratory viral diseases in children's collectives ( literature survey ) ] .
[ first results of the work of the urban cytological laboratory ] .
[ in vitro effect of leukocytic and thymic histones and their fractions on the activity of the causative agent of meningopneumonia ] .
it was found in studying the antimeningococcus activity of the leukocytic and thymus histones and their fractions that both histones were capable of neutralizing in vitro the activity of the causative agent of meningopneumonia ( mp ) .
the neutralization effect was chiefly associated with the f3 fraction rich in arginine and depended on the duration of the histone fraction contact with the mp causative agent , the weight concentration of the histone and the ph of the incubation medium .
[ immunological polyfunctionality of proteins and its meaning for the analysis of an allergen-active bacterial substrate ] .
it was shown with the aid of immunosorption of an allergen-active substrate of e. coli 020 : k84 ( no. 2-rii ) that protein substances taking part in the phenomenon of cell hypersensitivity were active in the humoral immunity reactions .
the allergenic and immunochemical activity served as functions of the same molecules of bacterial proteins , this substantiating the use of immunochemical analysis for the study of an allergen-active bacterial substrate .
by protein denaturing it is possible to obtain immunochemical inert allergen-active preparations capable of detecting the cell hypersensitivity to crude bacterial proteins .
the problem of immunological polyfunctionality of proteins is discussed from the aspect of nonhomogeneity of their antigenic determinant groups .
[ some properties of the alpha-hemolysin produced by a hemolytic strain of e. coli ] .
it was found that alpha-hemolysin of e. coli p 678 hiy+ was maximally active against human erythrocytes at ph 6.5 .
the hemolytic activity is characterized in time by a distinct lag-phase and a phase of the greatest velocity of the reaction immediately following it .
the duration of the lag-phase and also the rate of hemolysis depends on alpha-hemolysin concentration , whose increase is accompanied by a decrease of the lag-phase and acceleration of hemolysis .
there is a definite limit below which the duration of the lag-phase remains unchanged with further increase of hemolysin concentration .
there was noted a linear relationship between the amount of erythrocytes taken for the test and the rate of hemoglobin release and also a temperature activation of the hemolytic reaction .
[ an experimental study of the spectrum of individual psychotropic activity of clozapine ( leponex ) ] .
an experimental analysis of the psychotropic activity of leponex ( in a chronic experiment on ii cats ) in conditions of a group interaction depicted that the preparation processes a definite tranquillizing and antipsychotic effect .
in conditions of zoosocial interactions this drug promotes disappearance of neurotic reactions and a resocialization of animals in the zoosocial ierarchy .
in tranquillizing doses the preparation has an antihypertensive effect and prevents the development of a long-term tonic hypertension due to emotional stress .
affinity elution of pyruvate kinase from phosphocellulose .
pyruvate kinase from ascites tumour cells can be eluted from phosphocellulose by very low concentrations of phosphoenolpyruvate , fructose 1,6-bisphosphate , adenosine 5'-diphosphate and pyrophosphate , respectively .
the appropriate limiting conditions for `` facilitated desorption '' of the enzyme from phosphocellulose by these ligands have been elaborated for achieving maximum selectivity and recovery in the process of its purification .
this method has been designated as `` affinity elution chromatography '' owing to the specific interactions between a ligand as a constituent of the eluting medium with the adsorbed enzyme , which causes its selective desorption from the ion-exchanger .
affinity elution with phosphoenolpyruvate has been found to be very effective for preparation of the m-types of pyruvate kinase .
a specific activity of 420 for an almost homogeneous preparation of pyruvate kinase from ascites tumour cells has maximally been obtained .
[ influence of temperature on enzyme activity determination in serum : l-aspartate aminotransferase isoenzymes ] .
the influence of temperature on activity assays of the isoenzymes of l-aspartic aminotransferase in described .
for this purpose , isolated human isoenzymes were added to inactivated serum .
half-saturation constants were determined at 17.8 degrees c , 25 degrees c , 30 degrees c , and 37 degrees c , and the substrate saturation and ph curves were recorded .
the cytoplasmatic ( c ) and mitochondrial ( m ) got showed temperature-dependent differences in the half-saturation constants for the substrates l-aspartate and 2-oxoglutarate .
for both isoenzymes ph 7.4 is considered the optimum regardless of the temperature of measurement , and tris-hcl is the optimal buffer .
in the arrhenius plot there is a bent at 27 degrees c for both isoenzymes .
thermal denaturation as a possible reason for this deviation from the linearity in the arrhenius plot could be ruled out .
[ studies of in vitro cultivated cells from the smooth muscle organs. 3. effectiveness of some drugs on pulsation frequency of isolated smooth muscle cells of the chicken amnion ] .
the effects of some drugs on the beating frequency of isolated cells of the chick amnion cultivated on cover slips were investigated .
cholinergic and adrenergic agonists and antagonists , serotonine , antispasmodics , coronary dilatants and local anesthetics influenced the beating frequency significantly .
the isolated chick amnion cells equal in their pharmacological behaviour the intact chick amnion and smooth muscle cells of mammals but differ from isolated beating heart cells .
[ modification of the adjuvans arthritis by carrageenin , compound 48/80 , histamine- and serotonin antagonists , non-steroid antiphlogistics as well as protease inhibitors and their possible relations to inflammation mediators ] .
1. injections of carrageenin ( 1,25 mg/kg i.v. ) from the 1st to the 3rd day and then each 2nd or 3rd day inhibited paw swelling in adjuvant arthritis of the rat during the time of treatment .
injections from the 11th to the 15th day were ineffective .
the level of plasma kininogen was slightly decreased but the total complement serum level was significantly lowered .
2,5 and 3 mg carrageenin/kg respectively were toxic after repeated injections .
after a single administration the levels of plasma kininogen and of total serum complement were decreased by 50 % although paw swelling was not affected .
2. pentosane polysulfoester ( 25 mg/kg i.v. ) did not influence paw swelling despite daily administration from the 1st to the 17th day .
heparin ( 10 000 ie/kg i.v. ) was likewise ineffective .
3. single or repeated injections of compound 48/80 ( 0,125-0,5 mg/kg i.v. ; 1-5 mg/kg i.p. ; 3-6 mg/kg s.c. ) , reserpine ( 0,2 mg/kg i.p. ) , cyproheptadine ( 5 mg/kg i.v. ) , bromolysergic acid diethylamide ( 2 x 2 mg/kg i.v. ) or metiamide ( 10 mg/kg i.v. ) were without effect on paw swelling .
neither did compound 48/80 effect the complement serum level .
4. daily administration of chloropromazine ( 4-10 mg/kg p.o. ) or of promethazine ( 10-15 mg/kg s.c. or p.o. ) inhibited paw swelling in the first phase of adjuvant arthritis but not in the second one .
5. the soybean trypsin inhibitor ( 15 mg/kg i.v. ) inhibited paw swelling significantly up to the 4th day , the kunitz inhibitor ( 25 000 e/kg i.v. ) was ineffective .
6. the content of prostaglandin e of the inflamed paws was increased threefold in both phases of arthritis .
the results are discussed with regard to the putative role of mediators of inflammation ( histamine , serotonin , kinins , prostaglandins , lysosomal enzymes , lymphokines , complement ) .
[ tremorigenic effect of alpha , alpha - dipyridyl in the rat ] .
properties of plasma membranes from granulation tissue with reference to extracellular matrix .
treatment with neuraminidase decreased the activity of na+ , k+-activated mg2+-adenosine triphosphatase in plasma membranes isolated from experimental granulation tissue but not that of 5'-nucleotidase or leucine-beta-naphthylamidase .
a temporary lowering of the ph of the plasma membrane suspension to 2-3 inactivated all three enzymes , which remained inactive after the ph had been readjusted to 7.4 .
addition of dextran preparations to the membrane suspension decreased the activity of adenosine triphosphatase .
ethanol ( 0.4 % ) had a similar effect .
these marker enzymes of plasma membranes were not affected by additions of hyaluronate , chondroitin sulfate , protein polysaccharide or soluble collagen .
serotonin stimulated the adenosine triphosphatase activity slightly .
about 10-20 % of the protein in the plasma membrane preparation was extracted with edta .
this `` fuzzy coat '' fraction yielded a distinct gel-electrophoretic protein pattern .
hyaluronidase was not helpful in cleaving this surface layer from the plasma membranes .
serum gastrin concentration before and after parietal cell vagotomy in man and dog .
serum gastrin concentrations were measured during fasting and after feeding in duodenal ulcer patients and in dogs before and after parietal cell vagotomy ( pcv ) .
postoperatively , fasting serum gastrin concentrations increased significantly in man and insignificantly higher in dog .
after feeding , serum gastrin reached higher values postoperatively in both man and dog .
the percentage rise in food-stimulated serum gastrin after pcv was higher in dog than in man .
[ histological study of host reactions to allograft of the tooth and the subcutaneous insertion of dental prosthetic materials ] .
[ comparative study of a new antihistamine , mequitazine , and placebos ] .
in a double-blind trial lasting 2 weeks , a new , long-acting antihistamine , mequitazine , and a placebo , were compared .
115 allergic patients participated in this experiment ( mequitazine n = 56 , placebo n = 59 ) .
therapeutic results and the effect on diurnal alertness were evaluated by means of a questionnaire filled in daily by the patients .
whether considering the day by day results or the results of the entire treatment period , statistically , mequitazine ( 10 mg/24 hrs ) is very significantly more active than the placebo .
the daytime drowsiness induced by mequitazine is statistically no greater than that induced by the placebo , whether analyzed on a day by day basis or over the entire treatment period ( p = 0.23 ) .
the side effects , 8 for mequitazine , 5 for placebo , are mild and did not lead to discontinuation of the treatment in the mequitazine group .
beclomethasone dipropionate aerosol treatment of hay fever .
a dose-response investigation .
in a controlled , double-blind study 20 children and adults , suffering from summer hay fever , were treated intranasally with a daily dose of 200 mug , 300 mug or 400 mug beclomethasone dipropionate ( beconase , becotide nasal ) or with placebo for 2 weeks during the hay fever season .
no beneficial effect of the placebo treatment was observed .
in patients treated with 200 mug and 300 mug beclomethasone dipropionate a day there was a moderate decrease in nasal symptom scores and in use of antihistamine tablets .
as the results indicated 400 mug a day to have the most pronounced effect on nasal symptoms , this dosage is recommended for children as well as adults suffering from summer hay fever .
influence of changes in arterial pco2 on cerebral blood flow and cerebral energy state during hypothermia in the rat .
in order to study the relationship between arterial pco2 and cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) in hypothermia , the body temperature of artifically ventilated rats was decreased to 22 degreesc , and changes in cbf were evaluated from arteriovenous differences in oxygen content ( avdo2 ) at paco2 values of 15 , 30 , 40 and 60 mm hg .
the results were compared to those obtained at normal body temperature ( 37 degrees c ) over the paco2 range 15-60 mm hg .
separate experiments were performed to evaluate cbf and cmro2 at 22 degrees c and a paco2 of 15 mm hg , using an inert gas technique for cbf .
the tissue contents of phosphocreatine , atp , adp , amp and lactate were measured in hypothermic animals at paco2 values of 15 , 30 and 60 mm hg .
the results showed that changes in cbf were of the same relative magnitude in hypothermia and normothermia when paco2 was increased from about 35 to about 60 mm hg .
however , with a decrease in paco2 the reduction in cbf was much more pronounced in hypothermia , and at paco2 15 mm hg cbf was less then 20 % of the value measured in normothermic and normocapnic animals .
the results of the metabolite measurements gave no evidence of tissue hypoxia in spite of the pronounced reduction in cbf .
although the results demonstrate that the brain of a hypothermic animal is protected against the harmful effects of a lowered cbf , it may not warrant recommending hyperventilation in clinical cases of hypothermia , especially not in patients with arteriosclerosis or cerebrovascular diseases .
neurohistological and histochemical observations on the lung of rattus rattus rufescens ( indian black rat ) .
the intrinsic innervation of the lungs ( right and left ) has been studied by the cholinesterase technique , considering the effect of various ph , incubation periods and temperatures .
cholinergic innervation dominated .
the peribronchial ganglia , large , medium-sized and irregular-shaped , rounded and small , showed a positive cholinesterase reaction .
maximum che activity was noticed in the bronchi and their branches and on the periphery of the alveoli .
response of the hypothalamic neurosecretory system of the female catfish , heteropneustes fossilis ( bloch ) , to hypophysectomy .
the effect of hypophysectomy on the hypothalamic neurosecretory system of the catfish , h. fossilis , was studied .
hypophysectomy resulted initially in an accumulation of nsm at the distal ends of the cut axons .
the axons had grown and were reorganized into a neurohypophysis-like structure 3 weeks after hypophysectomy , and this persisted even more than 3 years post-hypophysectomy .
[ modification of nystagmus through the effect of drugs. pharmacodynamic introduction ] .
[ modification of nystagmus through the effect of drugs ] .
[ determination of the active ingredient content in tavegyl tablets ] .
reactions of the arterial blood pressure in changed haemodynamic conditions and under the effect of bilateral carotid occlusion .
in order to throw light on the problems related to the magnitude and the possibility of maintaining pressor response in the case of bilateral carotid occlusion ( bco ) , acute experiments were carried out on heparinized cats in chloralose-urethane narcosis and spontaneous respiration .
the perfusion pressure in a hind leg autoperfused with a roller pump with a constant flow and the arterial blood pressure were recorded electromanometrically .
a study was made of the changes taking place under the effect of bco in the normal animal , in animals in a haemorrhagic state , after pharmacological alpha-adrenergic blockade , haemorrhage after alpha-adrenergic blockade , retransfusion of blood + alpha-adrenergic blocking agent and after local application of 0.01 papaverine .
it was established that some of the factors determining the haemodynamic state of the organism , such as : blood volume , arterial pressure , vascular resistance , cardiac output , etc. , are of great significance for the realization of the pressor response to bco , but the haemodynamic state of the animal before the occlusion and the interactions between the abovementioned factors are decisive for the form , magnitude and maintenance of the pressor response in bco .
on the mechanism of the relaxing adrenaline effect on cat jejunum .
the effect of propranolol , phentolamine , papaverine , theophyline and ca++ , administered in different combinations of their threshold doses , on the relaxing effect of adrenaline was studied on an isolated segment of proximal jejunum of male cats .
it was established that phentolamine weakened the relaxing effect of adrenaline , while propranolol had no effect on it .
papaverine potentiated the relaxinf effects of adrenaline both when administered alone and in combination with propranolol or with phentolamine .
theophylline weakened the relaxing effect of adfrenaline and of the combination phentolamine-adrenaline .
ca++ increased the smooth-muscle tone .
the interpretation of the results obtained leads to the fundamental conclusions that the relaxing effect of adrenaline on cat jejunum is more alpha- than beta-adrenergically determined and that the system of the cyclic amp participates in its realization .
at the smae time , however , the possibility of participation of other mechanisms is not excluded .
the smooth-muscle effect of papaverine and theophylline is not determined only by their inhibitory effect on phosphodiesterase .
hypoxemic hypoxia produced by intravenous controlled infusion of co2 in the rabbit .
a method for the continuous study of net water transport in the feline small bowel .
a new perfusion technique has been developed for the study of net water transport across the intestinal epithelium in vivo .
the lumen of an isolated intestinal segment is steadily perfused with a solution of known composition in a closed perfusion system with a reservoir large enough to prevent recirculation .
the intestinal segment may be enclosed in a plethysmorgraph .
changes in the perfused volume is recorded by a volume transducer coupled to the recirculating system via a t-tube .
if no motility occurs , the changes of the perfusion volume reflects net water transport across the intestinal epithelium .
a quantitative comparison of this technique with the convention polyethylene glycol method revealed no significant difference .
the plethysmorgraphic method also makes it possible to quantify the net water absorption via lymph and blood .
effect of bulbar acidification on basal secretion of acid and gastrin in dog .
dogs were provided with mucosal septal pouches of the stomach and of the duodenal bulb .
in some dogs a drainage gastric cannula was inserted into the most dependent portion of the stomach .
in dogs which were found to secrete acid spontaneously during a control period at the start of each experiment , the bulbar puches were perfused with 0.1 m hc1 for 5-120 min .
bulbar acidification rapidly and profoundly reduced the basal acid output .
in dogs which did not secrete acid spontaneously during the control periodbulbar pouches were perfused with 0.1 m hc1 for 1 h .
bulbar acidification did not significantly influence the plasma gastrin concentration and no acid was secreted from the pavlov pouches following such acidification .
the present results support the hypothesis that reduction of the intrabulbar ph may contribute to the reduction of acid secretion during interdigestive periods .
the physiological significance of of mechanisms in the upper intestine which induce acid secretion following a reduction of the intraluminal ph is questioned .
presynaptic alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor medicated control of noradrenaline release in human oviduct .
[ kinetics of sodium nitrite decomposition ] .
chemistry and biology of macromolecular inhibitors from yeast acting on proteinases a and b , and carboxypeptidase y .
regulation of enzyme activity by glucagon : increased hormonal activity of iodinated glucagon .
metabolite concentrations and concentration ratios in metabolic regulation .
mechanisms for the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate : implications for control .
mannosidosis of angus cattle : a prototype control program for some genetic diseases .
classification and biological distribution of histamine receptor sub-types .
the distribution and classification of histamine receptors in mammalian and avian tissues have been summarized in tables 1-4 .
it is evident that histamine receptors are present on a number of morphologically distinct cell types and the proportion of cells bearing h1- and h2-receptors varies not only with the species but also with the cell source .
the pharmacological receptors mediating mepyramine-sensitive histamine responses have been defined as h1-receptors .
receptors mediating mepyramine-resistant , but burimamide or metiamide-sensitive histamine responses have been classified as h2-receptors .
histamine responses mediated via h2-receptors seem to involve the adenylcyclase system resulting in elevation of intracellular cyclic-amp level , which is susceptible to burimamide blockade but insensitive to beta-adrenergic blocking agents .
this mode of action of histamine involving h2-receptors and the adenyl cyclase system has been shown to stimulate the mammalian heart ; promote gastric acid secretion ; inhibit antigen-induced histamine release from leucocytes and inhibit lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity .
it can further be concluded that both h1- and h2-receptors are widely distributed throughout the animal body in the gastro-intestinal , reproductive , respiratory and cardiovascular systems , nervous system and on mast cells and blood leucocytes .
in these tissues , histamine receptors play an important role in physiological , immunological and immunopathological processes .
interaction of histamine with both h1- and h2-receptors in varying proportions modulates the overall manifestation of cardiovascular and respiratory syndromes during certain immunopathological conditions ( e.g. inflammation , allergy and anaphylaxis ) .
histamine receptors also appear to play and important role in the development of immuno-competence and immunity .
the biochemical pathology of aspirin-induced gastric damage .
[ corneal infections ( author's transl ) ] .
differentiation of newly isolated strains of trypanosoma ( schizotrypanum ) cruzi by agglutination and precipitation reactions .
serological relationships between new isolates of trypanosoma cruzi from a single locality have been examined by direct agglutination and immunodiffusion , and compared with established strains .
the strains were divided into three groups according to the absorption properties of their precipitinogens .
the three groups were defined by the same characteristics as those in which strains of wide-ranging provenance and long laboratory history have been placed by previous workers .
a lack of correspondence between the antigenic constitutions of the groups as described here and as described previously was demonstrated using reference strains .
relatedness values were calculated from agglutination titres , which indicated a complex heterogeneity of antigens , and from which a scheme of relationships was drawn .
identification of t. brucei-subgroup strains isolated from game .
several t. brucei-subgroup strains isolated from game were investigated with the blood incubation infectivity test ( biit ) and in human volunteers .
original isolates and their clones derivatives were tested .
in order to check the validity of the biit , volunteer tested clones were used under modified biit conditions .
inoculation of different trypanosome strains into volunteers yielded positive parasitaemia for original isolates from lion , hyaena , and coke's hartebeest .
changing antibody titers during the course of infection in the volunteers were checked with the indirect fluorescent antibody test ( ift ) .
the biit was reliable ( consistently positive ) for cloned t. b. rhodesiense .
when testing t. b. brucei , the biit results depended on the number of incubated parasites and on the parasitaemia peak number the tested trypanosomes derived from .
it was further shown that the in vivo part of the biit is actually essential for the complete neutralization of t. b. brucei induced by the action of human plasma .
tests with trypanosomes originating from experimentally mixed t. b. rhodesiense and brucei infections gave inconsistent results .
on the other hand , pure populations mixed in vitro-prior to incubation for biit-revealed results depending on the proportion of the 2 species : up to 20 % t. b. rhodesiense gave negative , higher concentrations consistently positive results .
studies on malaria and responses of anopheles balabacensis balabacensis and anopheles minimus to ddt residual spraying in thailand .
studies on malaria and on a. b. balabacensis and a. minimus responses to ddt spraying were conducted in a forested hilly area in northern thailand .
in a first phase , base-line data were collected from july 1970 to march 1972 .
in a second phase , the study area received five round of ddt spraying over a period of two years and at the same time all malaria infections received radical treatment .
during this two-year period of field operations , entomological and epidemiological observations were continued .
the studies carried out in the second phase , showed that malaria transmission decreased under the applied optimum anti-malarial measures but was not interrupted .
human ecology and population movement inside the forest , especially during the dry season , contributed to a great extent to this result .
the transmission occurring in the early part of the monsoon season clearly indicates the importance of the timing of ddt spraying .
a. b. balabacensis appeared to be transmitting malaria all the year round in the deep forest but only in the monsoon season in the forest fringe .
the vectorial capacity of both vectors was estimated separately for indoor and outdoor populations .
the pre-spraying values obtained for a. b. balabacensis were much higher thaan for a. minimus .
after ddt spraying a. b. balabacensis showed a decrease in vectorial capacity estimated at 31.5 times for the indoor population and 18 times for the outdoor population .
a. minimus , on the other hand , showed a much smaller decrease , estimated at 6.8 and 1.9 times for the indoor and outdoor populations respectively .
[ ecological study of ixodes ricinus ( linne , 1758 ) ( acarina , ixodoides ) in southeastern france ] .
ixodes ricinus ( linne , 1758 ) is being surveyed in the northern alp and the jura mountains .
this species , quite often found in the mesophilous forests of the hills , preferably takes root in the forest clusters , where there is a mull type mild humus often covered with an abundant litter .
such plant layers maintain a high degree of moisture , which beneficially affects this species .
examinations performed for three years in a southern jura's resort allow for securing a preliminary approximation as regards the seasonal population variations .
the micro-organisms of tsetse flies .
micro-organisms from tsetse fly mycetomes were maintained in culture , where they were more pleomorphic than in the mycetomes , but were in some cases very similar to those observed in ovaries by other authors .
agglutination tests on the cultured forms indicated in affinity to rickettsia .
they were sensitive to antibiotics introduced by feeding flies on hosts treated with ampicillin ; this reduced the longevity and fecundity of the tsetse flies and appeared to disturb normal digestion of bloodmeals .
the histopathology of experimental disease produced in mice infected with trypanosoma vivax .
an acute form of trypanosomiasis ( course of disease 4 to 8 days ) was produced in mice experimentally infected with a strain of t. vivax .
the features of the disease were : a parasitemia which appeared to increase exponentially from 23.8 to 243.6 times 10 ( 6 ) trypanosomes per ml within the last 24 hours of the disease ; anaemia was not severe in the disease in mice ; the basic histological lesion was generalized fibrin thrombus formation in the blood vessels of the heart , lung , spleen and brain ; trypanosome enboli were present in the brain , spleen and liver of infected mice .
the disease in mice could prove a useful model in studies of the pathogenesis of acute trypanosomiasis and also in studies in the mechanism of generalized intravascular coagulation .
lipase and unspecific esterase activity in the fat body of aedes aegypti l .
in the fat body of aedes aegypti a very high unspecific esterase activity and a low lipolytic activity was found .
the electrophoretic isozyme patterns of the unspecific esterases show only few changes in the different physiological stages .
the activity of the unspecific esterases as well as of the lipase is especially high in young sugar fed and in blood fed mosquitoes which points to special energy requirements in these stages .
the role of the unspecific esterases is discussed .
effect of adsorbents on igm and igg measles antibodies .
sera from rabbits immunized with l-16 measles virus absorded with monkey blood cells ; kaolin and blood cells ; and mncl2 and heparin were examined in haemagglutination inhibition ( hi ) and neutralization tests .
kaolin and mncl2 adsorbed primarily hi igm antibodies from the early immunization period .
the adsorbents used had no influence on hi and neutralization igg antibodies .
human convalescent serum gave similar results , i.e. only igg antibodies were found and they were not affected by kaolin and mncl2 with heparin .
correlation between molecular size and interferon- inducing activity of poly i : c .
electron microscopy showed that commerical poly i : c consisted of molecules varying in length from less than 0.05 nm to more than 5 nm and also in morphology . to clarify the relationship between its molecular size and interferon-inducing activity , poly i : c was sonicated or fractionated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation , and the molecular length distribution and interferon-inducing activity of each preparation was determined in vivo and in vitro .
the results showed that ( 1 ) poly i : c molecules 0.1-0.3 nm long were the most effective for interferon induction ; ( 2 ) sonication of poly i : c reduced its molecular length and also the interferon-inducing activity , the degree of reduction varying in different fractions ; and ( 3 ) the interferon-inducing activity of poly i : c of 0.1-0.3 nm obtained by sucrose density gradient centrifugation was higher than that poly i : c of corresponding length prepared by sonication .
distribution of lednice ( yaba 1 ) virus in the chick embryo .
distribution of lednice ( yaba 1 ) virus antigen ( lva ) was followed by immunofluorescene ( if ) in chick embryos inoculated into the yolk sacs .
positive fluorescence of lva was observed in neurons and neuroblasts of the developing brain , spinal cord and spinal ganglia as well as in skeletal muscles , heart muscle , vascular endothelium and lung mesenchyma .
in the yolk sac , foci of specific fluorescence were occasionally seen in endothelium cells of vessels and in islands of extraembryonic haematopoesis .
at sites corresponding to the occurrence of lva , extensive oedema was accompanied by extravazation of erythrocytes and accumulation of white blood cells .
the nature of tissues in which the virus replicates was discussed from the point of view of lva distribution and the morphological lesions observed .
serological differences between some isolates of bean yellow mosaic virus .
the degree of serological relatedness of three isolates of bean yellow mosaic virus ( bymv ) was studied .
one common antigenic group ( m ) was demonstrated in all 3 isolates .
in addition , another antigenic group ( a ) was demonstrated in the isolate fvm1 .
this group was absent from the isolates tpm3 and tpm11 , in which the antigenic group n was found .
antisera to the 3 isolates contained the corresponding antibody groups .
the antibody group ( m ) shared by all 3 bymv isolates was present in the fvm1 antiserum in a level only a little higher than the second antibody group ( a ) .
antisera to tpm3 and tpm11 isolates showed only a low titre of m antibody , while the second antibody group ( n ) reached titres from 512 to 1024 .
cross-absorption tests revealed serological identity of both isolates of the `` necrotic type '' ( tpm3 and tpm11 ) and allowed to estimate the degree of their serological relatedness to representatives of the `` mosaic type '' isolates of bymv ( fvm1 ) .
enhancement of the antigenic activity and virulence of the vaccine strain e of rickettsia prow azeki by passages in cell culture .
changes in the biological properties of the vaccine strain e of rickettsia prowazeki occurred upon cultivation of a1 ( human amnion ) cells infected with this strain .
in the course of passages of these cells the antigenic activity and virulence of the rickettsia increased .
the changes were observed in 10 out of 22 cell cultures examined : in 6 cultures there was an increase in the antigenic activity and in 4 both in the antigenic activity and in virulence .
the time of the occurrence of these changes in the rickettsial populations varied from 12-18 to 53-102 days of passage of the infected cells .
immunization against q-fever of naturally infected dairy cows .
dairy cows infected naturally with coxiella burnetii as evidenced either by presence of phase ii agglutinating antibodies in the blood or by shedding c. burnetii in the milk , were vaccinated subcutaneously with formalin-killed phase i c. burnetii organisms .
attempts to demonstrate c. burnetii in the milk of vaccinated dairy cows 47 days after vaccination were negative , while continuous shedding of c. burnetii in the milk of control non-vaccinated dairy cows was repeatedly demonstrated in the course of 123 days ( period of investigation ) .
no harmful systemic reaction following vaccination was observed .
characterization of nigerian strains of west nile virus by plaque formation .
seven strains of west nile virus isolated in nigeria were investigated for their ability to form plaques in monkey kidney cell monolayers .
five strains antigenically related to one another produced plaques of about the same size 3 to 4 days after the addition of the overlay medium .
the two other strains closely related to each other produced no plaques .
their inability to produce plaques was regarded as a significant characteristic of the intratypic group to which the two strains belong .
search for herpetic antibodies in the cerebrospinal fluid in senile dementia and mental retardation .
complement-requiring neutralizing antibodies to herpes simplex type 1 virus ( hsv 1 ) in titres from 2 to greater than 16 were detected in the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) of 47 % senile patients with various forms of dementia , but in none of mentally retarded adolescents and adults suffering from various neurologidal diseases .
also the incidence of hsv 1 serum antibodies in elevated titres ( larger than or equal to 512 ) was increased in senile demented patients ( 61 % ) as compared with persons in normal senium ( 31 % ) , normal adults ( 15 % ) , mentally retarded adolescents ( 17 % ) and prisoned felons with low iq ( 45-47 % ) .
selection of chlortetracycline-resistant strain of coxiella burnetii .
obtaining of measles virus haemagglutinin from strain l-16 grown in primary cell cultures .
pig kidney epithelial ( ps ) cells : a perfect tool for the study of flaviviruses and some other arboviruses .
precipitation of phase i antigen of coxiella burnetii by sodium sulfite .
on the problem of oncogene of tumour viruses .
the approach to the problem of oncogenesis of tumorigenic viruses is compared and analyzed from the position of the altshtein-vogt hypothesis and from that of the general theory of oncogenesis advanced by the present author .
in contrast to the hypothesis of altshtein-vogt dealing mainly with the problem of oncogene origin , the general theory of oncogenesis not only defines concretely the origin of the oncogene and the essence of its product , but also makes it possible to understand why , when and how integration of the oncogene with the genome of the cell leads to the transformation of the cell into a benign cell and when into a malignant tumour cell .
an analysis of the essence of the `` oncogene position effect '' from this standpoint shows that an integration , similar in its mechanism but differing in polarity , of the genome of other viruses with the cell genome should lead to the formation of a corresponding antiviral stable ( life-long ) immunity or also to the emergence of pseudoautoimmune disease of the type caused by `` slow '' viruses .
elizaveta nilolaevna levkovich-75th birthday .
v.i .
gavrilov .
electrocardiographic changes and cardiac arrhythmias in patients receiving psychotropic drugs .
eight patients had cardiac manifestations that were life-threatening in five while taking psychotropic drugs , either phenothiazines or tricyclic antidepressants .
although most patients were receiving several drugs , mellaril ( thioridazine ) appeared to be responsible for five cases of ventricular tachycardia , one of which was fatal in a 35 year old woman .
supraventricular tachycardia developed in one patient receiving thorazine ( chlorpromazine ) .
aventyl ( nortriptyline ) and elavil ( amitriptyline ) each produced left bundle branch block in a 73 year old woman .
electrocardiographic t and u wave abnormalities were present in most patients .
the ventricular arrhythmias responded to intravenous administration of lidocaine and to direct current electric shock ; ventricular pacing was required in some instances and intravenous administration of propranolol combined with ventricular pacing in one .
the tachyarrhythmias generally subsided within 48 hours after administration of the drugs was stopped .
five of the eight patients were 50 years of age or younger ; only one clearly had antecedent heart disease .
major cardiac arrhythmias are a potential hazard in patients without heart disease who are receiving customary therapeutic doses of psychotropic drugs .
a prospective clinical trial is suggested to quantify the risk of cardiac complications to patients receiving phenothiazines or tricyclic antidepressant drugs .
rapid in-office and in-vivo desensitization of an injection phobia utilizing hypnosis .
nutrition education in the medical school curriculum : a proposal for action : a curriculum design .
nutrition has been traditionally taught in medical schools with emphasis on clinical management of disease states with modified diets .
however , the science of nutrition can no longer be considered only in terms of the diagnosis and treatment of nutritional deficiency diseases .
prevention of disease-care rather than cure-must be emphasized .
using the nutrition concepts that evolved from the 1972 williamsburg conference encompassing the science and the sociology of nutrition , the author offers a proposal for action-a sequential nutrition curriculum design for years , i , ii , and iii of undergraduate medical education based on the experiences of the nutrition division , department of community medicine , mount sinai school of medicine-city university of new york .
management of life-threatening asthma with intravenous isoproterenol infusions .
thirty-four patients with life-threatening childhood status asthmaticus were treated with intravenous isoproterenol infusions .
twenty-seven responded favorably ; seven failed to respond and underwent mechanical ventilation .
intravenously administered isoporterenol was a useful therapeutic adjunct in the treatment of these severe attacks .
complications in these cases were rare , but cardiac arrhythmia , rebound bronchospasm , and acute mobilization of secretions need to be considered .
further evaluation of the efficacy of intravenous infusions of isoproterenol in status asthmaticus would be valuable .
responses to drug therapy in ulcerative colitis .
evaluation by rectal biopsy and histopathological changes .
to evaluate responses to medical therapy in ulcerative colitis , rectal biopsies of patients with active untreated disease , individuals with positive and negative sigmoidoscopic findings treated with salicylazosulfapyridine , prednisone and 6-mercaptopurine , alone and in combinations and noncolitis controls were compared histologically .
predominant histological observations were analyzed statistically .
there were fewer crypt abscesses but more mucosal edema after all forms of therapy .
quantitative histopathological analysis failed to demonstrate that the response to one drug was significantly different from another .
biochemical and electrophoretic studies of erythrocyte pyridoxine kinase in white and black americans .
the mean pnk activity in red blood cells from black subjects was only about 40 % of that in whites .
among 51 whites examined , one was found to have enzyme deficiency .
the estimated gene frequencies for pnkh ( the common allele in whites which codes for higher enzyme activity ) and pnkl ( the common allele in blacks which codes for lower enzyme activity ) were .35 and .65 , respectively , for black donors , and .81 and .19 , respectively , for white donors , the variant enzyme in persons with enzyme deficiency was associated with an increased rate of degradation in red cells during aging .
no other biochemical or electrophoretic differences were detected .
use of the latent image technique to develop and evaluate problem-solving skills .
this project involved designing , developing and evaluating a simulation module , utilizing the latent image technique .
the general topic chosen for this simulation was the laboratory characterization of anemias .
target learner populations included medical technology students , physician assistant students , and pathology residents .
members of all three groups participated in the evaluation of the module and responded to its use in varied settings .
review of drug treatment for down's syndrome persons .
a review of drug treatment for down's syndrome individuals was presented .
drugs used to modify behavior , as well as drugs used with the goal of affecting cognitive processes , were discussed .
some observations were offered as to the effectiveness of past and current drugs on down's syndrome and some methodological problems relating to drug studies presented .
there have not been any drugs that have demonstrated remarkable improvement in the status of down's syndrome individuals that have been widely accepted as effective .
development of a special electrode for continuous subcutaneous ph measurement in the infant scalp .
using a combined special glass electrode it is possible to monitor ph ratios and ph variation in the subcutaneous tissue of the infant scalp continuously .
tests on a normal sample of newborn babies immediately after birth showed a significant correlation between tissue ph and capillary blood ph , with the trend of ph variation being broadly similar in both measurement media .
rapid infusion of sodium bicarbonate and albumin into high-risk premature infants soon after birth : a controlled , prospective trial .
we conducted a controlled , prospective trial to evaluate the effectiveness of rapidly infusing sodium bicarbonate ( nahco3 ) and salt-poor albumin into high-risk , premature infants in the first 2 hours of life .
fifty-three infants , randomized into one of four treatment groups , received 8 ml. per kilogram of a solution containing either ( a ) glucose in water , ( b ) salt-poor albumin , ( c ) nahco3 , or ( d ) a combination of albumin and nahco3 .
after the initial infusion , the babies received no colloid or alkali solutions until 4 hours of age .
we managed them supportively with warmth , appropriate oxygen administration , isotonic fluid infusion , and close monitoring .
among the infants who received alkali , 14 of 26 acquired the respiratory distress syndrome ( rds ) , 11 died , and four had intracranial hemorrhage .
among babies who received no alkali , rds occurred in 11 of 27 , 5 died , and none had intracranial hemorrhage .
these results do not support the common practice of rapidly infusing nahco3 into high-risk , premature infants , and they suggest that the early management of such infants needs renewed critical evaluation .
effect of ph on ionic exchange and function in rat and rabbit myocardium .
the effects of ph variation on ionic exchange and mechanical function were studied in the arterially perfused rat and rabbit septa .
the ph and pco2 of the control perfusate were 7.40 and 39 mmhg , respectively .
in the rabbit septum a metabolic acidosis ( ph equals 6.82 , pco2 equals 39 mmhg ) caused a loss of 16 % of control tension in 12 min .
na+ and k+ exchange were unaltered .
a comparable respiratory acidosis ( ph equals 6.81 , pco2 equals 159 mmhg ) caused a 51 % loss of tension in 2 min .
na+ exchange was unaltered but k+ efflux fell from 8.9 +/- 0.6 ( mean +/- se ) to 4.9 +/- 0.3 mmol/kg dry wt per min ( p less than 0.001 , n equals 10 ) .
a net gain of k+ of 16.9 +/- 1.7 ( n equals 14 ) mmol/kg dry wt occurred and was attributable to a delayed fall in k+ influx relative to efflux over 15 min .
the net gain could not be mimicked by epinephrine administration or blocked by propranolol and was absent in the beating rat septum and the quiescent rabbit septum .
these results suggest that the net uptake of k+ , which appears to be dependent on a period of depolarization , and the changes of contractility are controlled by the h+ ion concentration at a cellular site whose exchange with the extracellular space is characterized by a considerable restriction of diffusion .
changes of contractility are not related to the net uptake of k+ .
acid-base balance in amphibian gastric mucosa .
it has been established that h+ secretion can be maintained in frog stomach in the absence of exogenous co2 by using a nutrient bathing fluid containing 25 mm h2po4 ( ph approximately equal to 4.5 ) or by lowering the ph of a nonbuffered nutrient solution to about 3.0-3.6 .
exogenous co2 in the presence of these nutrient solutions uniformly caused a marked decrease in h+ secretion , pd , adn short-circuit current ( isc ) and an increase in transmucosal resistance ( r ) .
elevation of nutrient [ k+ ] to 83 mm reduced r significantly but transiently without change in h+ when nutrient ph less than 5.0 , whereas r returned to base line and h+ increased when nutrient ph greater than 5.0 .
acidification of the nutrient medium in the presence of exogenous co2 results in inhibition of the secretory pump , probably by decreasing intracellular ph , and also interferes with conductance at the nutrient membrane .
removal of exogenous co2 from standard bicarbonate nutrient solution reduced by 50 % the h+ , pd , and isc without change in r ; k+-free nutrient solutions reverse these changes in isc and pd but not in h+ .
the dropping pd and rising r induced by k+-free nutrient solutions in 5 % co2 - 95 % o2 are returned toward normal by 100 % o2 .
our findings support an important role for exogenous co2 in maintaining normal acid-base balance in frog mucosa by acting as an acidifying agent .
effect of sodium nitrate loading on electrolyte transport by the renal tubule .
effects of sodium nitrate were compared with sodium chloride loading on transport of electrolytes by the nephron .
maximal levels of free water clearance/clomerular filtration rate ( ch2o/gfr ) averaged 8.4 % with nitrate loading and 14.4 % with saline loading .
since ethacrynic acid and chlorothiazide exert their major natriuretic effect in the distal nephron , the increment in na ad cl reabsorbed beyond the proximal tubule .
the administration of these agents resulted in an increase in fractional sodium excretion ( cna/gfr ) of 21.1 % , urinary sodium excretion ( unav ) of 1,126 mueq/min , and urinary chloride excretion ( uclv ) of 848 mueq/min during nitrate loading compared with an increase in cna/gfr of 37.6 % , unav of 2,362 mueq/min , and uclv of 2,397 mueq/min during saline loading .
the smaller diuretic-induced increment in na and cl excretion in the nitrate studies suggests , as do the hydrated studies , that less cl and na are reabsorbed in the distal nephron during nitrate than saline loading .
at every level of unav , fractional bicarbonate reabsorption was higher , urine ph was lower , and urinary potassium excretion ( ukv ) was higher in the nitrate studies .
thus , compared with saline loading , sodium nitrate decreases chloride and sodium reabsorption in the distal nephron .
the higher hydrogen and potassium secretion in the nitrate studies may be consequent to the decreased ability of the distal nephron to reabsorb chloride .
coronary vascular and myocardial responses to carotid body stimulation in the dog .
coronary vascular and myocardial responses to selective hypoxic and/or hypercapnic carotid chemoreceptor stimulation were investigated in constantly ventilated , pentobarbital or urethan-chloralose anesthetized dogs .
bilaterally isolated carotid chemoreceptors were perfused with autologous blood of varying o2 and co2 tensions via an extracorporeal lung circuit .
systemic gas tensions were unchanged .
effects of carotid chemoreceptor stimulation on coronary vascular resistance , left ventricular dp/dt , and strain-gauge arch output were studied at natural coronary blood flow with the chest closed and during constant-flow perfusion of the left common coronary artery with the chest open .
carotid chemoreceptor stimulation slightly increased left ventricular dp/dt and slightly decreased the strain-gauge arch output , while markedly increasing systemic pressure .
coronary blood flow increased ; however , coronary vascular resistance wa .
as not affected .
these studies show that local carotid body stimulation increases coronary blood flow but has little effect on the myocardium .
the increase in coronary blood flow results mainly from an increase in systemic arterial pressure .
thus these data provide little evidence for increased sympathetic activity of the heart during local stimulation of the carotid chemoreceptors with hypoxic and hypercapnic blood .
oxygenation of frog gastric mucosa in vitro .
we have recently shown that 5 % co2/95 % o2 in the serosal bathing solution , with 100 % o2 in the mucosal solution , results in co2-diffusion limitation of acid secretion in bullfrog gastric mucosa .
changing to 10 % co2/90 % 02 on both surfaces doubles the acid secretory rate .
we calculate that , were the rate of oxygen consumption to increase significantly as a result of secretory stimulation , the tissue would now be oxygen limited .
this prediction is tested by raising the p02 by increasing the total pressure in a hyperbaric chamber .
since no change in acid secretory rate or potential difference was observed upon changing from po2 = 0.9 to po2 = 1.9 atm , we conclude that the tissue is not o2 limited at normal pressure .
decreasing po2 below 0.9 atm , by contrast , decreases the acid secretory rate and raises both pd and resistance .
we infer that the rate of oxygen consumption did not rise significantly when acid secretion was increased by supplying sufficient co2 .
mechanisms of disposal of acid and alkali in rabbit duodenum .
stripped duodenal mucosa of rabbits was mounted in ussing chambers containing a ringer solution gassed with 100 % o2 .
the disappearance of acid or alkali from the mucosal solution of short-circuited tissue was measured with a ph stat while the serosal ph was kept at 7.4 .
the duodenum rapidly disposed of both acid and alkali ; neither property was altered by gassing with n2 while iodoacetate was in the perfusing solutions .
prevention of release of co2 from the mucosal chamber obliterated the early rapid phase of acid disposal by the mucosa while a similar maneuver in the serosal chamber increased the appearance of serosal acid without altering the rate of acid disposal .
gut sacs of rabbit duodenum in vitro and in vivo showed a positive correlation between acid disposal and the rate of luminal co2 production .
while acid disposal progressively decreased with time for the in vitro gut sacs , the in vivo gut sac showed no fatigue in this respect .
luminal acidification in the ussing chamber was associated with a profound reduction in short-circuit current ( isc ) , partially reversible by elevation of the mucosal ph but not by luminal glucose .
our data suggest that acid disposal occurs in part by intraluminal neutralization and in part by diffusion into the mucosa .
letter : acid secretion by gastric mucous membrane .
maintenance antipsychotic therapy : is the cure worse than the disease ?
the serious long-term complications of maintenance antipsychotic therapy led the authors to undertake a critical review of outpatient withdrawal studies .
key findings included the following : 1 ) for a least 40 % of outpatient schizophrenics , drugs seem to be essential for survival in the community ; 2 ) the majority of patients who relapse after drug withdrawal recompensate fairly rapidly upon reinstitution of antipsychotic drug therapy ; 3 ) placebo survivors seem to function as well as drug survivors -- thus the benefit of maintenance drug therapy appears to be prevention of relapse ; and 4 ) some cases of early relapse after drug withdrawal may be due to dyskinesia rather than psychotic decompensation .
the authors urge clinicians to evaluate each patient on maintenance antipsychotic therapy in terms of feasibility of drug withdrawal and offer practical guidelines for withdrawal and subsequent management .
task delegation to physician extenders -- some comparisons .
this study uses a task delegation questionnaire to compare 1973 physician extender practices in seven primary care-oriented sites with a physician attitude survey made in 1969 .
one additional site using no physician extenders was included as a control .
the study involves both major types of physician extenders ( physician assistants and nurse practitioners ) in ambulatory practices with at least one year of experience in using such personnel .
with minor exceptions , actual task delegation patterns conform with the 1969 attitudes of physicians as to which tasks `` could and should '' be delegated to physician extenders .
chest roentgenography as a window to the diagnosis of takayasu's arteritis .
the chest roentgenographic findings in takayasu's arteritis include widening of the ascending aorta , contour irregularities of the descending aorta , arotic calcifications , pulmonary arterial changes , rib notching , and hilar lymphadenopathy .
the single most important diagnostic sign is a segmental calcification outlining a localized or diffuse narrowing of the aorta .
the other signs may be suspicious or suggestive , but the diagnostic accuracy increases when several findings are present simultaneously .
evaluation of the nissen antireflux procedure by esophageal manometry and twenty-four hour ph monitoring .
fifteen normal volunteers without symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux and sixteen patients with symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux unresponsive to medical management and having endoscopic esophagitis had esophageal manometry and twenty-four hour ph monitoring of the distal esophagus .
the symptomatic patients underwent a nissen antireflux procedure and were restudied at four months .
after surgery , patients had less reflux , a higher sphincteric pressure , and an equal amount of sphincter within the abdomen as did asymptomatic control subjects .
[ effect of combined use of steroid preparations with pyrroxane on the gonadotropic function of the hypophysis ] .
[ changes in the indicators of immunologic reactivity in patients with juvenile uterine hemorrhages in different methods of therapy ] .
[ plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone during anaesthesia and operative stress and beta-adrenergic blockade ( author's transl ) ] .
in 21 patients undergoing ear operations associated with minimal bleeding plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone concentration were studied before and during surgical procedure , and in the postoperative state .
studies were performed in two groups , one without ( n=9 ) and one with beta-adrenergic blockade by practolol ( n=12 ) .
plasma renin activity increased significantly during halothane anaesthesia alone whereas the surgical manipulations did not further influence mean values significantly .
thus , it seems to be established that anaesthesia per se influences renin secretion .
on the other hand practolol does not show an inhibiting effect .
the plasma renin increase following anaesthesia is due to the hemodynamic including renal hemodynamic , changes as well as to activation of the sympatho-adrenal system .
changes in plasma aldosterone are variable .
for the greater part of patients with beta-adrenergic blockade an increase during the operative procedure was found .
however , in some patients especially in the control group , plasma aldosterone was unchanged or decreased in spite of increasing renin values .
significantly lower plasma potassium concentration in these cases seems to indicate the important contributing role of potassium for the short-term regulation of aldosterone secretion .
plasma sodium concentration remained unchanged for the periods studied .
rapid , multisample isoelectric focusing in sucrose density gradients using conventional polyacrylamide electrophoresis equpiment : a two-peak transient in the approach-to-equilibrium .
assay of picomole amounts of atp , adp , and amp using the luciferase enzyme system .
analytical studies on crotamine hydrochloride .
protein staining and ph gradient determination on the same gel in isoelectric focusing .
desalting of rpc-5 oligonucleotides on dowex 50 .
extinction coefficients for use in equations for the spectrophotometric analysis of haemoglobin mixtures .
ehancement of fine structure of ultraviolet spectra applied to direct extraction of drugs from urine .
letter : thiopental absorption after inadvertent injection into the epidural space .
[ surgical criteria for reoperation in abdominal surgery ] .
analysis of the surgical criteria for reintervention in abdominal surgery led to the accentuation of a certain number of pictures of occlusion , general infectious syndromes , postoperative peritonitis , gastro-intestinal fistula and hemorrhagic syndrome .
in all cases , the clinical examination can be misleading in particular in the case of peritonitis , and the history and non-surgical criteria must be strongly borne in mind .
[ nephrologic criteria for reoperation ( in the framework of abdominal surgery ) ] .
38 cases of abdominal surgery in acute renal failure , checked anatomically by reintervention or autopsy , were analyzed .
the authors emphasize the frequency of the state of shock ( 2/3 of the cases ) and the misleading nature of local signs .
they stress the value of routinely checking creatinine clearance in the preoperative check-up in order to screen for latent renal failure .
[ criteria for reoperation in abdominal surgery ( exclusive of surgical and nephrological criteria ) ] .
in summary , 40 p. 100 of 104 reinterventions carried out in 71 patients from the resuscitation sector were decided upon in the absence of surgical and nephrological criteria .
the authors emphasize the value of the infectious syndrome ( 74 p. 100 of the cases ) , of water and electrolyte disorders ( 60 p. 100 of the cases ) , and of hypercatabolism ( 83 p. 100 of the cases ) .
[ discussion : criteria for reoperation in multiply-operated patients ] .
[ preparation of the patient for reoperation ] .
the preparation of patients for reintervention should aim at the correction of : - states of shock and collapse , found in one out of three patients ; - hydroelectrolytic disturbances ( sodium depletion , hypochloremia , dyskaliemia ) ; - and finally , re-establishment of the acid-base balance .
[ anesthesia in reoperations in abdominal surgery ] .
fifty one patients from different surgical units , hence anesthetized by different anaesthesists , underwent reinterventions in abdominal surgery .
the indications for the first intervention essentially involved the supra-mesocolic region of the abdomen ( 62 out of 100 cases ) .
the operative risk during the first intervention was on the average 18 pour cent .
the protocol of the first anaesthesia which was known in 42 cases , was of the narco-ataralgestic type .
the date of the return to the operation table varied from 1 to 60 days .
the state of the patients was in general catastrophic ( organic renal failure , acute respiratory failure ) .
here again the anaesthesia was of the narco-ataralgesic type but the choice of drugs varied depending on the patients ' state .
however non significant difference was noted in the average hourly drug consumption between the two interventions .
apart from one circulatory arrest during induction , in one patient with hemorrhagic shock , no death was attributable to the anesthetic technique .
the authors , using these findings , attempt to pick out a practical line of behaviour .
[ peroperative resuscitation in abdominal reoperations ] .
resuscitation of these patients during operation is the only the logical continuation of their preparation .
the authors therefore take up the preceding points while emphasizing : - checking vascular filling , by central venous pressure and hourly diuresis ; - the necessity for a supply of carbohydrates , which is even more indispensable when the subjects were submitted to parenteral hyperalimentation previously ; - the advantages of performing arterial blood gases in order to check artificial ventilation .
[ the surgical period ] .
reinterventions demand adaptation of the anaesthesia to each particular case .
abdominal exploration and peritoneal toilet are the preliminaries of the surgical act .
continuous confrontation of anesthetic problems with surgical difficulties guarantee effective surgery .
[ respiratory problems following repeated abdominal surgery ] .
the authors analyzed a series of 100 patients who had undergone a total of 143 reinterventions and found respiratory manifestations in 86 cases .
they emphasized the frequency of functional respiratory failure and studied the course of different clinical , radiological and laboratory parameters .
the second part is concerned with the physiopathological mechanisms , recalling the main causes of postoperative hypoxemia .
finally the therapeutic chapter is centered on the chronology and modalities of artificial ventilation .
[ infectious problems in reoperations in abdominal surgery. apropos of 104 operations ] .
analysis of the problems with infection in a series of 104 reinterventions , enables one to accentuate the importance of infestation from intraperitoneal foci ( 70 p. 100 of the cases ) .
extra-peritoneal entry pathways are difficult to prove .
septicemia is found in one out of every three cases .
in certain cases , preventive treatment of the extra-peritoneal entry pathways must be opposed to the effectiveness of the surgical act in the eradication of septic foci .
[ nutrition in the surgical patient with complications ] .
parenteral feeding in complicated abdominal surgery has been a definite therapeutic progress .
however the authors emphasize the divergent attitudes concerning the amounts of nitrogen which should be supplied as well as the variations in the calories-nitrogen ratio .
they propose a practical attitude which must be reevaluated individually .
[ surgical problems. ( apropos of reoperations in abdominal surgery ) ] .
out of 1,500 laparotomies carried out between january 1970 and december 1973 , 49 patients , i.e. 3.2 p. 100 underwent 61 reinterventions : one out of three patients died .
almost 60 p. 100 of these patients who had undergone operations had essentially parietal complications .
the authors analyze the different syndromes which had led to the reintervention while making a special place for parietal problems .
[ prognostic factors in reoperations in abdominal surgery. apropos of 104 operations ] .
analysis of the prognostic factors in abdominal surgical reinterventions accentuates the disparaging character of age , associated defects and emergency .
intercurrent respiratory complications , as well as infectious and renal complications make the prognosis considerably worse .
[ respiratory signs of surgical complications after abdominal operations ] .
the authors present 29 cases of post-operative respiratory complications in abdominal surgery in subjects without any past history of respiratory disorders .
they stress the diagnostic value of these cases of acute respiratory failure shown in a third of the cases of surgical complications .
[ medico-surgical evaluation of 71 reoperations in abdominal surgery ] .
the authors thoroughly checked 71 reinterventions in abdominal surgery .
they again found the importance of the factor of infection , respiratory , complications and oligoanuria .
the overall percentage of deaths was 58 p. 100 , age and associated defects made the prognosis worse .
[ postoperative peritonitis. use of metabolic disorders as criteria for reoperations ] .
the authors compared three groups of subjects : - the first group ( 11 patients ) : re-operated for post-operative peritonitis ; - the second group ( 6 patients ) : re-operated for evisceration without any underlying lesion ; - the third group ( 8 patients ) : non-reoperated , complicated abdominal surgery .
study of the different laboratory parameters helped to identify a number of changes which could plead in favor of reintervention , in the group of peritonitis .
among these modifications , the progressive fall in the urinary na/k ratio and the negativity of the nitrogen balance appear to play a privileged role .
[ our experience with reoperations in abdominal surgery. ( 54 reoperations in 46 patients in the last 4 years ) ] .
the authors analyze 54 reinterventions in abdominal surgery in 46 patients , and present the lesions found on reintervention .
in one out of two cases there is an intra-peritoneal septic focus .
in more than 25 p. 100 of the cases the lesions were multiple .
they oppose the localized septic foci and the occlusions which are of good prognosis , with the diffuse septic foci , acute pancreatitis and fistulae whose course is more often than not fatal .
[ anesthesia and resuscitation of a thoracic-injured patient just arriving at the hospital ] .
[ anesthesia and resuscitation of a heroin addict ] .
[ loco-regional anesthesia of the foot by truncal infiltration at the level of the ankle ] .
[ demythification of acupunctural anesthesia ] .
the so-called method of acupuncture anesthesia uses a series of techniques : selection of patients , psychotherapy , premedication , adjuvants ( morphinomimetics , local anesthetics ) , choice of points ( very varied ) whose specificity has not been demonstrated , mechanical or electrical stimulation ( with very differents depending on the `` schools '' .
the effects of these procedures are inconstant .
they are slowly established .
at best , they are manifested by a hypo-esthesia which is more or less wide-spread and is not accompanied by any `` anti-reflex '' protection .
the action of the organism's different functions is not known in detail .
there are no statistical studies in the strict sense of the term , in man .
it can be roughly estimated that out of 100 surgical patients chosen , about 30 undergo the intervention in acceptable conditions in the western world .
the cases , although nothing is concealed in hanoi as well as in peking , are difficult , and should only be handled by experienced anesthetists-resuscitators , with knowledge of acupuncture .
certain of the method's advantages only appear in comparison with bad `` chemical '' anesthesia ( atoxicity , simplicity , economy ) , others are practically investions ( anallergic effects , anti-infections , anti-shock ) or at least abuse of language .
the disadvantages apart from the inconstancy of effectiveness , the absence of `` protection '' , the duration of induction , consist of lack of standardization of techniques , difficulties of animal experiments and the lack of rational explanation of the mechanism of action .
[ study of the effects of alfatesin on cerebral blood flow in cats ] .
the cerebral haemodynamic effects of ct 1341 also called alfatesin , an anaesthetic steroid , were studied in the cat by means of the xenon 133 isotopic clearance method to measure the cerebral blood flow .
the injection or intravenous drip of alfatesin in animals whose arterio pco2 was kept unchanged induced a cerebral blood flow diminution , the importance of which was proportional to the injected dose .
the cerebral blood flow fall was partly due to a cerebral arterio vasoconstriction evidenced by direct observation of the cortex vessels and by a diminution of the intracranial presure .
during a deep anaesthesia induced by alfatesin with recurrent burst suppression , there was a loss of cerebral blood flow autoregulation while the co2 cerebral vascular reactivity was maintained .
this last result accounts for the increase in cerebral blood flow parallel to the hypercapnia that could be observed among animals breathing freely .
[ effects of alfatesin on total cerebral blood flow in humans ] .
the total cerebral blood flow was measured by the xe 133 in 9 patients , before and during a pure alfatesine induced anaesthesia .
with a perfusion flow of 0,04 ml/kg/mn , the total flow underwent a mean fall of 38 p. 100 that was linked neither to any systemic pressure variations nor to variations of the paco2 .
this fall was linked to a cerebral arterio vasoconstriction as it was evidenced by arteriographic images .
[ study of pressor drops during continuous peridural analgesia in gerontologic surgery ] .
a statistical study bearing upon othe fall of blood pressure concomitant with the setting of peridural anaesthesia was carried out upon an homogeneous series of patients over 75 belonging to groups iii and iv of the a s a classification for interventions seating below the ixth metamere .
from this study , it seems to follow that : - for starting maximum arterial tensions over 180 mm/hg , pressure falls are virtually constant in absolute value ; - the most important variations in pressure falls are to be found in abdominal surgery ; - the lowest figure in blood pressure which accompanies the achievement of surgical analgesia takes place about the 24 th minute whatever the type of surgery can be ; - no significant link can be evidence between the importance of the fall in blood pressure and the consumption of the mixture required for surgical analgesia .
[ harzard of chronic exposure to halothane for operating room personnel ] .
this study shows that the staff working in an operating room is repeatedly being exposed to appreciable doses of halothane vapours .
a continuous measurement of the concentrations in the ambient air gave results ranging from 5 to 30 ppm .
summits from 50 to 70 ppm were noted .
the inhaling of halothane was evidenced by the presence of brominated metabolites in the urine of the staff .
a mean 14,59 mg/l was found with women anaesthesists .
therefore it is quite possible that the halothane spread in the air should be held responsible for the discomfort felt in particular by anaesthesists .
to prevent this risk of chronic intoxication by those vapours , there ought to be a device permitting either to evacuate them outside or to collect them while regenerating the polluted air through an active carbon filter if one has not got at one's disposal an airing system offering over 20 renewals of fresh air per hour .
the fitting up of a permanent control device equipped with warning light and bell is also justified .
[ organization of first aid on the northern motorway in picardy. role of the regional medical first aid unit ] .
the picardy regional s.a.m.u. implanted in amiens , has participated in the implantation of antennae of the s.m.u.r. whereby aid can be given accident cases on the northern motorway .
after a brief historical review of the creation of these antennae , and presentation of what exists in the sections of the northern motorway not in picardy , the means of the regional s.a.m.u. are presented , and the way it which it functions , with regards to specific problems concerning medical aid on the motorway .
the results of the s.m.u.r. activities are presented and discussed .
the necessity for good coordination of medical aid , the fundamental role of the regional s.a.m.u. , is particularly emphasized .
[ helicopters and medical first aid units. role of medical first aid unit 94 ] .
for the transport of injured and sick patients , the helicopter ( even the mono-turbine type ) offers greater advantages when compared to land vehicles : - more comfort ( less vibrations , accelerations and decelerations ) ; - a greater speed , that is to say a 61 p. 100 gain of time upon the distance and a gain from 29 up to 44 p. 100 upon the total amount of time taken up by each transport .
this gain in time enables valuable specialised medical teams to be more available : - more precise time-tables than by land which namely makes it easier to receive the patients .
the drawbacks are linked with the risks which are not nonexistent but rather less serious than by land .
the drawbacks also depend upon the weather-conditions ( although this factor does not matter much in our area ) , upon nuisances such as the noise ( which is more important but far more transitory than by ambulance ) and chiefly upon the cost of air-transport .
in fact , the mean cost of a medical land transport amounts roughly to one thousand francs , a quarter of which only does represent the actual cost of medical aid .
for a similar transport , the helicopter comes to a 47 mns flight .
there are several ways of making good use of a helicopter .
practical problems have been solved .
the `` samu 94 '' experience goes back to 1973 and includes over 500 transports by helicopter essentially with the help of the teams and the helicopters belonging to the paris base ( civil protection and the fire-brigade ) .
for flights over urban areas , it is to be desired in the future that only twin-turbine helicopters should be used .
[ clinical and therapeutic problems posed by hangings. apropos of 67 cases ] .
starting from a collection of 67 cases of hanging taken over by the anesthesia resuscitation department belonging to reims hospital university centre , the authors report their clinical observations and make an analytical confrontation of this type of accident according to various criteria such as : - the initial physical condition of the victims ; - the evolution of the symptoms ; - the various medical treatments used .
the immediate consequences of miscarried hangings lead to a physio-pathological argument dealing mainly with the neurological and breathing manifestations .
the elements of this argument enable the writers to back up certain therapeutic orientations among which hyperbaric oxygen therapy and early prescription of which seems to be wished for in the most severe forms of hanging .
[ severe complications of subclavian vein catheterization ] .
the authors report 4 observations of severe involvement induced by sub-clavian catheterization : - 2 catheter-embolisms ; - 1 venous thrombosis and one hydrothoraxx .
one embolism and the hydrothorax were caused by a faulty puncturing .
the thrombosis was the result of a relative stenosis of the vein induced by a loop of the catheter in the pirogoff confluent .
next , the authors develop the facts given by the literature bearing upon each one of these complications .
[ acute renal insufficiency and fat embolism ] .
the authors report ten cases of renal insufficiency observed among a series of 43 cases of fat embolism .
it is a matter of eraly oligoanuria ( starting beween the 2nd and the 4th day ) .
its severity depends on the lesions involved : prolonged cardio-vascular collapse - cranio-encephalic lesion .
the renal insufficiency does not seem typical of fat embolism .
it must be essentially linked to a cardio-vascular collapse and/or to a disseminated intra-vascular coagulation .
[ anesthesia-reanimation and perinatology. introduction ] .
[ effects of nasogastric intubation on respiratory resistance and work in newborn and premature infants ] .
the nasal resistance participates for almost 50 p. 100 in the resistance of airways ( rva ) of the new-borns whose respiration is mainly nasal .
the possibility of an oral respiration in case of partial or total occlusion of nasal way is almost null .
in order to determinate the effects of a naso-gastric suction of the rva 10 normal infants ( 3 prematures , 7 new-born babies ) were studied by plethysmographia .
the presence of the suction brought a systematic and significant increase of rva ( the coefficient of transformation = 1,318 +/- 0,21 p is less than 0,001 ) .
in the nine infants for whom the resistant work ( wr ) was estimated is increased proportionaly to the increase of rva ( deltarva ) ( coef. of transformation = 1,44 +/- 0,44 , p is less than 0,001 ) .
however the proportional increase of wr is not systematic superior for 3 prematures and 1 new-born baby and similar in one case .
these variations can be explained by various adjustments of the v .
the increase of work imposed by the presence of a naso-gastric suction can not be underestimated in particular for the prematures .
[ treatment of severe forms of idiopathic respiratory distress in newborn infants using constant negative perithoracic pressure ] .
49 children with a severe idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome were treated by continuous negative pressure ranging from 5 cm of water to a negative pressure of 13 cm of water around the thorax .
the partial pressure of oxygen rose significantly in the majority of cases , and the alveolo-arterial gradient also significantly diminished by more than 100 mm of mercury .
29 children were treated by this method alone , but in 20 other children owing to the failure of constant negative pressure , respiratory assistance either by intermittent pressure ventilation or intermittent positive pressure ventilation was associated .
on the whole 35 out of 49 children survived .
the complications which were met with are analyzed .
continuous negative pressure seems to be a safe and effective method for improving oxygenation in the idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome .
[ pah clearance measurement without urine samples in the newborn infant with respiratory distress ] .
pah clearance was carried out in 12 newborns , hospitalized in the infantile resuscitation unit for respiratory distress .
6 of these children weighed less than 2.5 kg , 4 had hyaline membrane disease , 6 had either amniotic abnormalities or transitory tachypnea , 2 were surgical patients : one right diaphragmatic hernia , one post-operative respiratory complication after intervention for neonatal occlusion .
in 9 cases the newborn was under controled artificial ventilation associated with peep at 5 to 7 cm of water .
in all of the cases , the hemodynamic , metabolic and blood gas conditions were normal .
a control series of 11 newnorn was carried out in a pediatric unit , the clearance was done without urine samples , the rough value of the figures found varied from 5.5 ml per minute to 30 ml per minute in the respiratory distress series and 16 to 62 ml per minute in the control series .
the analysis of these results in rendered difficult by the juxtaposition of several factors : choice of a reference criterion : body surface area , pah space , patient's weight theoretical weight of the kidneys .
the factor of prematurity .
the problem of the date of the investigation in comparison with the date of birth .
[ transport of `` high-risk '' newborn infants. ( apropos of 159 emergency calls by the samu 94-service d'aide medicale urgente-emergency health service ) ] .
analysis of our experience confirms in the domain of the newborn the fundamental notion of the emergency medical call .
the emc has two objectives : 1 -- emergency treatment before the patient is moved , and the correction of failing vital functions by a medical team skilled in problems of neonates .
2 -- transportation of the neonate in a stable condition , to the intensive care unit .
the quality of such transportation depends closely upon the quality of the medical care given and upon organisation .
it can only be carried out in the context of a system coordinated by a `` coordinating physician '' ( e.g. samu 94 ) .
this coordinating physician has responsibility for logistics , telephone coordination , and application of the call procedure as rapidly as possible .
from a logistical point of view , only coordination between : -- samu-smur ; -- medical team of the intensive care unit ; -- requesting service make possible the provision and quality of continuous supplies of oxygen , warmth , sugar - all under aseptic conditions , indispensable to the quality of survival of the neonate .
in addition , we feel it essential -- that the delay before the call is answered be as brief as possible ; -- that the call should be dealt with by a mixed team , including at least one physician experienced in neonatal problems ; -- that the choice of vehicle used for transportation should be better adapted to the situation .
this choice is the responsibility of the coordinating physician , who should base his decisions on two fundamental requirements : -- rapidity of dealing with the call ; -- personal safety of those involved .
this without losing sight of -- prevention of perinatal problems lies part with the detection of high risk pregnancies , with the aim of arranging delivery in specialised `` mother and baby '' centres where close collaboration between obstetrician and paediatrician is assured. -- the development of transportation of the `` high-risk '' neonate , which is so costly in manpower and equipment , depends closely upon general concepts of health care in france , which should be aimed at : -- the prevention of prematury ; -- the detection of high risk pregnancies ; -- the development of mother and baby centres .
[ transport of newborn infants. apropos of 114 cases ] .
the transport of 114 newborn less than 24 hours old carried out in 1972 and 1973 by the paris samu ( professor m. cara's unit ) is studied .
( he delay of arrival of the medical team is on the average one hour , the child arrives in the resuscitation center approximately two and a quarter hours after the call .
in 15 cases an umbilical catheter was put in place ; in 27 cases the child was intubated , artificial ventilation was carried out during transport .
on arrival , from the mean values , the temperature was 25.2 degrees , the ph 7.28 , the po2 112 , the blood sugar 1.53 g.three practical conclusions must be drawn : reserve high risk deliveries for specialized centers , when the degree of emergency compells delivery in a badly equipped center , contact the samu from the beginning of labour , render the actions carried out by the transporting doctor even more rigorous and controled , which implies an organized smur which is well equipped and trained .
[ vascular and infectious enteropathy in newborn infants. reflections on pathogeny ; clinical and therapeutic deductions. apropos of 45 cases ] .
necrotizing enterocolitis of the new-born has an anatomical definition : lesions discovered during surgery or on post-mortem examination .
progress in neanatal shock reveals facts already known in the adult and in experimental medicine : concept of preferential and circulatory by-pass .
a considerable decrease in blood flow is seen in the latter during shock ; this shock is sometimes not important .
mesenteric circulation is the best example .
this syndrome should therefore be included in the major vascular changes of neonatal period .
vascular and infectious enteropathy is a broader term which seems more appropriate because of aetiological and therapeutic implications .
the aetiology should be considered as a sum of several factors varying from one patient to another ( multifactorial disease ) .
the circulatory component remains very important .
its severity depends on whether or not it is treated .
four notions should be defined : -- census of population of subjects with `` high risk '' of vascular and infectious enteropathy ( score trial ) ; -- isolation of clinical pictures corresponding to a medical or surgical stage ; grouping of elements for immediate and long term prognosis ; -- grouping of elements for immediate and long term prognosis ; -- proposal of preventive treatment to the `` high risk '' patients ( surgery ; continuons parenteral and enteral feeding are intientionally left out in this paper ) .
the interest of this concept of the disease is to eradicate severe forms as in the neonatal idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome where a similar concept was adopted .
[ pre- , per- , and postoperative resuscitation in thoracic surgery in newborn infants ] .
the authors report their five year-experience in reanimation during thoracic surgery in the new-born .
the report concerns 66 cases ( 43 atresias of the oesophagus and 23 diaphragmatic hernias ) .
prognosonis depends on : 1 -- a permanent temam of suitably qualified doctors ready to carry out at any time the required therapy on the infant .
2 -- free air way ( kinesitherapy , continous and prolonged suction of oesophageal atresias and bronchial suction ) .
3 -- ventilation ( surgery on clean lungs in atresias , diaphragmatic prosthesis and suturing of skin in hernias ) .
respect of these rules in diaphragmatic hernias saved 12 lives out of 23 ; in oesophageal atresias , 16 survived out of 16 cases classified as good cases , and the total survival rate was 73 % .
[ congenital cardiopathies appearing during the neonatal period. the view points of the cardiologist , the hemodynamics specialist , the surgeon , and the anesthetist ] .
the best chances of survival for a new-born depend on the following factors : the possibility of clinical and haemodynamic diagnosis of the malformation , adequate reanimation and surgery .
all this must be carried out as early as possible .
although catheterization is very risky it should be complete and as fast as possible , under monitoring of ventilation and haemodynamies .
reanimation is very important before , during and after surgery ; it should be more preventive than curative .
very often , surgery is only palliative at this age .
taking into account progress in surgical techniques , the authors report their experience in anaesthesia and ressuscitation of 100 patients under 10 days old .
they were all operated on in laennec in professor mathey's department but only some of them were catheterized there .
[ leukomalacia and subsequent brain status in relation to intensive neonatal care ] .
leucomalacia or white matter necrosis is one of the major aspects of neonatal encephalopathies , especially in the premature baby .
these necroses are found mainly in the deep periventricular white matter of the `` semi-oval centre '' .
characteristically , they are ischaemic and their anatomical and histological progress is rapid : coagulation necrosis with rapid axonal fragmentation followed by polymorphic cellular reaction with glial cells and macrophages .
regeneration in the minor forms consists of glyosis process in severe forms ; multiple cavities appear in a few weeks .
physiopathogenic hypotheses put forward are related to : 1 -- the very anatomic aite : special tissue and terminal arteries , 2 -- onset of myelinization process , 3 -- associated clinical and biological lesions such as hypoxia , acidosis and hypotention .
these lesions are symptom-free during the neonatal period .
one of us suggested in 1962 that these could be the anatomical basis of spastic monoplegia or diplegia ( little's disease ) .
all motor cerebral sequelae have disappeared since 10 years .
this is particularly significant mainly in the case of spastic diplegia of the former premature baby under 2500 g .
this decrease coincides with improvement in neonatal care , especially correction of hypoxia , acidosis and cardiovascular collapse .
these findings seem to support the pathogenic hypotheses .
[ neonatal listeriosis ( based on 43 cases ) ] .
using results in 43 cases from two neonatal units ( paris-tours ) , the authors emphasize the essential facts concerning neonatal listeriosis .
1 -- incidence : -- of an infectious maternal disease ( 32 cases out of 43 ) , -- of permaturity ( 60 % of cases ) , -- and of foetal distress ( 72 % ) .
2 -- clinical study : early neonatal infectious are the only forms seen ; clinical signs appear before the first day ( 40 out of 42 ) .
these is septicaemia with mainly respiratory signs ( olypnoea , laboured breathing ) .
their presence and clinical history should incite to take swabs of the orifices and carry out blood culture .
the new-born are given double antibiotherapy ( penicline and aninoside or kanamycine and gentalline ) while waiting for laboratory reports .
this routine treatment based on maternal past history and on mild clinical signs at this stage has improved the prognosis of these septicaemias ( 16 deaths out of 43 children ) .
[ appearance of coagulation disorders in the non-healthy newborn infant ] .
coagulation abnormalities are particularly frequent in neonatal pathology and justify exploration of hemostasis in the newborn .
first of all we established a profile of coagulation in the newborn using our own results and data from the literature .
contrasting with a deficit in numerous factors ( ii - vii - ix - x - xi - and xii ) , overall coagulation is normal , or even increased .
the fibrinolytic system is characterized by a low plasminogen level but the activity of this system is transitorily increased .
then we recall the known syndromes : avitaminosis k , constitutional deficits in the coagulation factors , isolated thrombopenia , disseminated intravascular clotting .
however numerous problems persist .
abnormalities in the clotting factors are frequently difficult to interpret .
correlation between the clinical and laboratory pictures does not always exist .
we emphasize the necessity for preventive measures .
[ perinatal assistance in the delivery room -- reanimation of the newborn infant ] .
in most cases birth brings an infant who can rapidly adapt himself to a normal extra-uterine life .
however , sometimes and most of all , in `` high risk '' cases , this infant needs a correct surveillance before and after the delivery in order to prevent morbidity and especially perinatal morbidity .
our actual knowledge , derived from the fantastic progress of perinatalogy , demonstrates that , in order to assure the wanted end of the pregnancy , the only assistance of the delivery at hospital by a qualified obstetrician is not enough .
it is necessary to have a continuous surveillance at the beginning of the pregnancy and during the pregnancy and a correct attention at the mother - foetus binomial during the labor and the delivery .
that will permit the discovery of pre- para and post-natal factors , to undertake the prevention and to lower the number of perinatal mortality .
[ therapeutic trials in pregnant women ] .
the increasing use of medications during pregnancy and labour leads to the question of their true effectiveness and the absence of harmful effects , for both mother and foetus .
study of the action of medications given to the pregnant woman requires clinical trials with precise methodology including , as an essential stage , the definition of an experimental protocol .
random distribution of the subjects to the various groups and statistical analysis of the results based upon objective criteria are essential .
no study of the action of a medication as far as mother and foetus should be undertaken without prior parmacological and pharmacokinetic trials .
[ drug interference and the role of anesthesia in such interference ] .
this report considers interference between medications for , on the one hand , drugs given during pregnancy , and , on the other hand , drugs given to the pregnant women and anaesthetic agents .
consideration is given to progestational agents , oxytocics , beta-mimetics , corticosteroids , insulin , hypotensive agents , diuretics and psychiatric drugs .
for each case of interference , an attempt is made to provide practical data , with particular respect to those combinations frequently prescribed by obstetricians , e.g. the combination of the beta-mimetics and corticosteroids with the aim of preventing impending premature onset of labour and to ensure foetal pulmonary maturation ; the combination of insulin and corticosteroids given to diabetics with the aim of preventing hyaline membrane disease ; the combination of corticosteroids with anti-histamines in the treatment of rhesus disease ; the association of oxytocics with large quantities of intravenous fluid in the case of post-partum haemorrhage and hypontensive medication combinations and the problems which may result with emergency anaesthesis .
[ drug heritage of the newborn infant ] .
the medicamental heritage of the new-born baby is a reality that we are more and more realizing .
during intra-uterine life , the foetus is placed under different maternal influences that the new-born baby is done an `` old '' and unsafe one who can present , as early as his birth , modifications of his own metabolism .
to know if this heritage is really a dotation or an empoisoned gift , is an important question that we are going to study in light of experimental data and constatations of clinical pharmacology .
[ influence on the fetus of drugs taken during pregnancy ] .
the use of drugs during pregnancy is very common ; some substances can provoke in the foetus troubles and anatomical or functional disorders which may be detected either at birth or later on .
then it is necessary the physicians restrict the prescription of therapeutical agents for and only for well-knowned indications .
the education of people in regard of this subject is also necessary about drugs used during pregnancy without medical advices .
[ evaluation of fetal maturity at birth ] .
it is very important to evaluate the degree of maturity of a new-born infant in order : - to appreciate the chronological age when the date of the last period is unknown or doubtful , - to compare the degree of maturation with the weight and size of the infant , in regard of estimating the intra-uterine growth and detecting early a lateness or advance of this growth .
[ severe respiratory distress with stubborn hypoxemia in newborn infants whose mothers had had placenta previa ] .
the study of 16 newborn of birthweight less than or equal to 2,200 g characterized by a common point : the presence of placenta praevia in the mother , enabled us to come to grips with the severe respiratory distress that these newborn can have .
from the clinical standpoint : there is always early respiratory distress .
from the radiological standpoint : by far the most dominant pathology was interstitial edema , giving rise to a wet lung .
from the biochemical standpoint : the blood gases were characterized in a certain number of cases by hypoxemia which was refractory to the usual forms of treatment .
from the mechanical standpoint : measurements carried out in 4 patients confirmed the extraordinary fall in these patients ' compliance .
the clinical , radiological , blood gas and mechanical analysis enabled one to differenciate 2 main types of indications for artificial ventilation : -- acute hypoxemia , -- the idea of an increased need for oxygen .
in these 2 types of indications for artificial ventilation , it was apparent that the treatment of choice is constant positive pressure which may or may not be combined with intermittent positive pressure .
with this treatment technique , none of the patients progressed to massive atelectasis .
it can be said that with the advent of techniques of ventilation by high pressure combining ipp with cpp , one has definitively eliminated from this pathological picture , the principal cause of death : -- anoxia due to massive alveolar collapse .
[ primary management of labor using neuroleptic analgesia ] .
within the limits granted , neuroleptanalgesia constitutes a very interesting technique in the major part of management of labour .
in particular it has the advantage of preserving maternal consciousness .
on the other hand , it allows analgesia of rather long duration , which renders early management of labour possible while still respecting its physiology .
the institution of this technique demands the presence at the parturients bedside , not only of the obstetrician and the medwife but also that of a qualified anesthetist .
as in all cases of major management of labour it engages the responsability of the obstetrical team which undertakes it and this is even more so , the earlier it is started .
to us its indications seem comparable with those of gamma oh : the early management of labour however has the advantage over the latter of preserving maternal consciouness .
moreover it proved to be particularly interesting in the management of breech presentations .
but if its properties are an advantage in the indications which we have just mentioned , they can constitute an invonvenience and restrain its use under different circumstances : its slowness of induction , the absence of narcosis which limits the effect on cervical resistance means that one prefers the toulouse method using pentothal for the management of labour after 7 centimeters of dilatation .
in conclusion , it seems important to us to state that neuroleptanalgesia is not the ideal method for management of labour any more than is thiopental or gamma-oh .
other techniques merit being studied .
their study must obey strict rules in order to specify the risks and therefore the indications and limits .
it should cover different fields which are , pharmacology , the objective assessment , by quantitative criteria , of the effects on uterine contraction , on the mother's clinical and biological state as well as that of the fetus in utero , then that of the child in the first hours of live and up to the first years of his development .
[ drugs most frequently used during pregnancy and labor and their effects ] .
it is rather difficult to draw up a list of the drugs most frequently used during pregnancy , and to specify their action on the mother , the uterus ans the fetus bearing in mind the differences between them .
this difficulty results in particular from the high number of drugs owing to : the frequency of prescriptions and selfmedication in the pregnant woman who suffers from numerous disorders , and the possibility of a pathology associated with the pregnancy or a pathology due to the pregnancy itself thereby defining the `` high risk '' pregnancy .
on this background already modified by pregnancy , under the hold of numerous drugs , an anesthetic can be necessary in addition during labour or delivery , the frequency of which can be estimated as being approximately 20 per cent .
it is not possible to study all therapeutic agents in a single communication .
one can only evoke the influence of the most currently used drugs ; analgesics , antibiotics , diuretics , sleeping tablets , anti-hypertensives and those aimed at the neuropsychiatric system ( anti-depression agents , neuroleptics , tranquillizers ) which are so frequently used at present .
finally , during labour the number of parturients who receive no drugs is rare : ocytocic and anti-spasmodic agents can also interfere with an anesthetic .
all of these ideas which are more and more difficult to acquire are important to know .
in fact the person in charge of the delivery must prescribe as little drugs as possible ( in order to avoid multiple drug interference which is rather difficult to predict ) knowing the possible action of drugs on the fetus ( in order to allow best adaptation to life in our atmosphere after delivery ) and foreseeing the possible necessity for an anesthetic .
in his turn , the anesthetist should have a good knowledge of obstetrical physiology and pathology and the drugs capable of being used during pregnancy and labour in order to be able to choose the best adapted anesthetic .
this emphasized the importance of a well integrated obstetrico-anesthetic team in which each member knows the problems of the other , with the aim of being the least possible noxious for the mother , and the future newborn , the fetus .
this also emphasizes the necessity for anesthetists attached to the ostetrical unit , knowing like the obstetrician the histories of those women with `` high risk '' pregnancies .
obstetrical anesthetics can not be improvised .
[ important physiological considerations in artificial respiration and reanimation of newborn infants ] .
the methods used for ventilation of the neonate shold be based upon consideration of the physiological changes which occure in the lungs and circulation at birth of the normal infant .
three important changes must be taken into consideration .
the first is the formation of a residual volume of alveolar gas , the second the resorption of pulmonary fluid and the third a decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance , upon which is dependent the change from foetal circulation to that of the neonate .
to begin insufflation of foetal lungs it is necessary to use a pressure of between 20 and 30 cm h2o .
after the first insufflation , a good deal of air remains in the lungs , even during expiration , as long as pulmonary `` surfactant '' is present .
in the absence of the latter , residual pressure at the end of expiration is necessary in order to avoid the lung emptying itself of air .
the resorption of pulmonary liquid from the alveolar spaces into the blood is dependent upon a change in the permeability of the alveolar epithelium , which renders possible the rapid passage of water via the channels which open , probably between the epithelial cells , and this change is dependent upon an expansion of the lungs by a pressure of between 35 and 40 cm h2o .
dilatation of the pulmonary vessels depends in part upon an increase in partial pressure of oxygen and a fall in carbon dioxide in the environment of the pulmonary arterioles , and in part upon mechanical changes brought about by the movements of ventilatation .
[ spectrofluorometric determination of a new beta-blocking agent , acebutolol in blood and urine ] .
the authors describe a simple method of spectrofluorimetric estimation of acebutolol , applicable to blood and urine , sufficiently sensitive to obtain therapeutic concentrations .
after administration of a 200 mg dose by mouth , one may observe a maximal plasma concentration 3 hours later , with average values of 1.02 +/- 0.20 mg/liter .
the principle of the estimation is based on acid hydrolysis of the product , then condensation of the liberated amine with nitroso-1 naphtol-2 to give a fluorescent derivative ( stimulation 460 nm , emission 545 nm ) .
[ determination of the activity of serum ornithine carbamoyltranferase : working conditions in a veronal-acetate medium ] .
ornithine carbamyl transferase activity was determined by estimation of the citrulline formed during the reaction .
citrulline is estimated by diacetylmonoxime in the presence of thiosemicarbazide .
the conditions of enzyme analysis were then studied in buffer veronal-acetate medium at 37 degrees c .
the optimum ph for activity depended on the ornithine concentration , but was independent of carbamyl-phosphate concentration .
at ph 7.8 , ornithine at concentrations higher than 1.6 mm inhibited enzyme activity , ornithine km was 0.208 mm and that of carbamyl-phosphate was 1.92 mm .
the incubation time for determination of oct activity was 15 minutes .
citrulline production was proportional to the enzyme concentration up to activities of 180 units/l .
serum urea was destroyed by a urease of high quality , so that the formation of citrulline in the control reagents was minimal .
reference values , determined on a hospital population , without liver , heart or pulmonary disease , lay between 4.7 +/- 2.3 units/l .
the coefficient of variation of the technique , determined on a pool of serum of moderate activity was 8 units/l i.e. 5.1 per cent .
behavior modification .
a perspective on critical issues .
comparison of anileridine and pethidine in preventing pain responses during nitrous oxide-oxygen anaesthesia .
the analgesic potency of anileridine and pethidine was compared in 28 patients by measuring their effect on withdrawal movements caused by pinching of the skin or by surgery during n2o + o2 anaesthesia .
it appeared that anileridine is 3.5 to 4 times as potent as pethidine on a weight basis .
in equianalgesic doses the incidence of side effects was equal after both drugs .
effects of the cardioselective beta-blocker metoprolol in angina pectoris .
a subacute study with exercise tests .
the effects of the cardioselective beta-blocker , metoprolol , were evaluated under double-blind conditions in eighteen patients with angina pectoris .
during an introductory run-in period of eight weeks , a placebo was given single-blindly .
thereafter two double-blind crossover periods each of four weeks followed , either 20 mg metroprolol or placebo being given t.i.d .
metoprolol gave a significant reduction in the number of anginal attacks and in nitroglycerin consumption .
the patients ' subjective assessments of their daily angina pectoris symptoms also showed a significant improvement compared with the placebo .
at the end of each period , a standardized exercise test was performed .
in comparison with placebo , metoprolol gave a significant increase of total work performed until the appearance of 1 mm st-segment depression and until the end of exercise .
the heart rate was significantly reduced at rest and during exercise .
the blood pressure was significantly reduced only during exercise .
none of the patients reported any severe unwanted effects .
the complaints reported were mild to moderate , and the frequency during metoprolol treatment was even lower than during placebo treatment .
no signs or symptoms of cardiac failure were seen in any of these patients on any occasion .
it is concluded that 20 mg metoprolol t.i.d. is of benefit in the treatment of angina pectoris but further benefit might be obtained with higher doses .
effects of external and internal arthropod parasites on domestic livestock production .
[ effect of the phosphorus concentration on novobiocin formation by the producer act. spheroides ] .
according to the literature data biosynthesis of novobiocin by act. spheroides unlike other antibiotics does not practically depend on the phosphorus levels in the medium .
in the present paper it is shown that production of novobiocin in natural media is sensitive to the concentration of mineral phosphorus in the medium .
the optimal concentration of phosphorus for biosynthesis of novobiocin is almost within the same ranges as that for biosynthesis of streptomycin , tetracyclines and oleandomycin .
[ microbiological study of gentamiycin ] .
gentamycin prepared at the all-union research institute of antibiotics did not differ by its antibacterial spectrum and the activity level from gentamycin samples from other countries .
by its activity against clinical strains of ps. aeruginosa gentamycin was somewhat inferior than polymyxin but much more superior than carbenicillin .
an agar-diffusion method using bac. pumilus ntcc 8241 as the test microbe was developed for determination of gentamycin activity .
the gentamycin sulfate complex and the components of gentamycin had the same activity levels , antibacterial spectrum and diffusion capacity .
[ use of lincomycin , methicillin and ristomycin in the nutrient media for isolating pathogenic intestinal microorganisms ] .
elective-differentiating solid nutrient media for simultaneous isolation of vibrioes , salmonella and shigella were developed .
antibiotics active against grampostive microflora and dry bile salts inhibiting the growth of proteus were used as the inhibitors of the growth of the accompanying microflora .
the medium was lincomycin and the bile salts may be prepared in a dry form .
[ characteristics of the oxidative metabolism in strains with varying levels of fucidin biosynthesis ] .
oxidative capacity of the fusidin-producing strains with various biosynthetic activity was studied comparatively .
the studies showed that by their capacity to oxidize pyruvate and some metabolites of the tricarboxylic acid cycle ( acetate , succinate , malate ) the strains were arranged in the order reverse to their antibiotic activity .
such regularity was observed during the whole fermentation process and was most pronounced by the 3rd and 4th days ( beginning of the idiophase ) .
the rate of glucose oxidation was higher in more active strains .
the same regularity was noted in the 2nd phase of the strain development associated with beginning of fusidin biosynthesis .
in the 1st phase ( the 1st and 2nd days ) the strains almost did not differ by their capacity to oxidize glucose .
by oxidation of phosphorylated ethers of carbohydrates ( glucose-6-phosphate and fructoso-6-phosphate ) the strains did not differ .
various fusidin-producing strains oxidized nad-n and nadp-n approximately with the same rate .
it is supposed that mutations leading to increased antibiotic production are associated with changes in acetate metabolism in the direction of more intensive biosynthesis of isoprenoid compounds , potential precursors of the fusidin molecule .
lactulose therapy in shigella carrier state and acute dysentery .
antibiotic-resistant shigella are increasingly prevalent .
lactulose , a non-absorbable disaccharide , was investigated as an alternative therapy for shigella infection on the hypothesis that the short-chain fatty acids ( inhibitory to shigella ) resulting from metabolism of lactulose by normal colonic flora would diminish shigella excretion .
a long-term antibiotic-refractory carrier ( large bowel ) excreting 10 ( 4 ) to 10 ( 7 ) shigella sonnei/g of feces was given two courses of lactulose ( of 24 and 16 days duration ) .
during lactulose therapy , excretion of shigella was greatly diminished ( 24-day course ) or suppressed below detectable levels ( 16-day course ) , but returned to pretreatment levels upon discontinuation of lactulose .
the volunteers who developed induced shigellosis during an efficacy test of oral shigella flexneri 2a vaccine were randomly given oral ampicillin , lactulose , or placebo in double-blind fashion .
daily rectal cultures were taken .
after 4 days of therapy , cultures were still positive in four out of four men on lactulose , three of three on placebo and none of three on ampicillin .
mean stool ph of men receiving lactulose ( 6.1 ) was significantly lower than those getting ampicillin ( 7.4 ) , p < 0.01 , or placebo ( 7.0 ) , p < 0.05 .
only in the lactulose group was mean stool ph during therapy significantly decreased compared with the level off therapy ( 6.1 versus 7.1 ) , p < 0.02 .
lactulose shows promise for the treatment of shigella carriers but appears ineffective in treatment of acute shigellosis .
antimicrobial effect of simple lipids and the effect of ph and positive ions .
various branched fatty acids , particularly those of iso-configuration , have been shown to possess fungistatic and bacteriostatic properties .
on the basis of their swelling effect on hyphae of fusarium roseum it was suggested that this is due to an increase in the permeability of the plasma membrane .
the solubilization of fatty acids in membranes should be expected to be influenced by the degree of dissociation and the presence of counter ions .
therefore , the effects of ph and k ( + ) , na ( + ) , and ca ( 2+ ) ions were studied .
it is demonstrated that the presence of the univalent ions , na ( + ) and k ( + ) , markedly enhances the fungistatic effect of iso-tetradecanoic acid , whereas the opposite effect is noted for the divalent ion , ca ( 2+ ) .
the effects are particularly pronounced at high ph .
furthermore , the antimicrobial effect obtained from the combination of fatty acid and tetramethylthiuramdisulfide is significantly enhanced in the presence of 0.1 and 0.2 % kcl .
regulation of citrate synthase activity of saccharomyces cerevisiae .
citrate synthase activity of saccharomyces cerevisiae was determined by a radioactive assay procedure and the reaction product , 14c-citric acid , was identified by chromatographic techniques .
atp , d-atp , gtp and nadh were most inhibitory to the citrate synthase invitro .
the activity was inhibited to a lesser extent by adp , utp , and nadp whereas , amp and ctp were much less inhibitory .
nadh , like nad , glutamic acid , glutamine , arginine , ornithine , proline , aspartic acid and alpha-ketoglutarate exhibited no inhibition .
these results have been discussed in the light of the role of citrate synthase for the energy metabolism and glutamic acid biosynthesis .
role of acetate metabolism in sporulation of saccharomyces carlsbergensis .
several aspects of the role of acetate metabolism in the sporulation of saccaromyces carlsbergensis were investigated .
experiments in which the development of the respiratory system was either stimulated by growth on sugars to which the cells have to adapt , or inhibited by chloramphenicol suggested a correlation between respiratory development and sporulation .
in cells in which the respiratory system has been repressed during growth , mitobhondrial protein synthesis and derepression are prerequisites for sporulation .
when derepression is complete , sporulation no longer depends on mitochondrial protein synthesis .
incorporation experiments with acetate showed that this compound is an important source of intermediates for biosynthetic processes that occur during sporulation .
its incorporation into macromolecular fractions is tightly coupled to sporutlation .
bacterial and fungal growth in total parenteral nutrition solutions , .
the most serious complication of prolonged intravenous infusion of hypertonic dextrose and amino acids is infection .
frequently , the etiology is fungal rather than bacterial .
previous authors have suggested that bacterial survival and growth in the solutions is suppressed by ( a ) high dextrose concentration , ( b ) high osmolality , or ( c ) low ph .
this paper presents evidence that proposals ( a ) and ( b ) are untenable and ( c ) is only partly responsible .
we call attention to the presence of a factor that is antibacterial but not antifungal ; namely , a high concentration of glycine .
new medium for isolating iron-oxidizing and heterotrophic acidophilic bacteria from acid mine drainage .
a new solid medium is described for growing iron and heterotrophic bacteria from acid mine drainage ( amd ) .
examination of amd from five states revealed several kinds of colonies of iron-oxidizing bacteria : ( i ) smooth , ( ii ) smooth with secondary growth sectors or branching , ( iii ) star-shaped , ( iv ) radiating lobe , and ( v ) flat-rough .
all amd samples yielded whitish colonies that could not use ferrous iron , sulfur , or hydrogen , nor could they grow on nutrient agar , brain heart infusion agar , or trypticase soy agar .
glucose and sucrose supported growth if the sugar-salts medium was at ph 3.0 .
the new iron medium has several advantages over others : ( i ) easy preparation , ( ii ) rapid growth , ( iii ) larger colonies , ( iv ) differentiation of colony morphology , and ( v ) detection of a new group of heterotrophic acidophilic bacteria .
effect of initial ph on aflatoxin production .
the effect of initial ph on aflatoxin production by aspergillus parasiticus nrrl 2999 was examined in a semisynthetic medium .
maximal growth , aflatoxin production , and aflatoxin production per unit of growth occurred at initial ph levels of 5.0 , 6.0 , and 7.0 respectively .
initial ph levels less than ph 6.0 favored production of the b toxins , whereas levels greater than ph 6.0 favored production of the g toxins .
high-temperature production of protein-enriched feed from cassava by fungi .
a simple , nonaseptic , low-cast process for the conversion of cassava , a starchy tropical root crop , into microbial protein for use as animal feed was sought .
screening tests culminated in the isolation of a thermotolerant , amylase-producing mold , designated i-21 , which was identified as aspergillus fumigatus .
the optimum ph for protein synthesis was 3-5 , but the optimum temperature was less than the desired temperature ( larger than or equal to 45 c ) required for a nonaseptic fermentation .
a. fumigatus i-21 and its asporogenous mutant i-21a grew equally well in a medium prepared from whole cassava roots with a mean protein doubling time at 45 c and ph 3.5 of 3.5 h .
in batch culture , approximately 4 % carbohydrate , supplied as whole cassava , could be feremented in 20 h , giving a final yield of 24 g of dry product , containing 36.9 % crude protein , per liter .
the conversion of carbohydrate used to crude protein was 22.1 % .
when determined as amino acids , the protein content of the product , which contained cassava bark and other unfermented residues , was 27.1 % .
with urea as the nitrogen source , no ph control was necessary .
preliminary data indicated that medium prepared from whole cassava roots was inhibitory to the mold unless the cassava pulp was heated to 70 c immediately after being ground .
heating to 70 c was required to gelatinize the starch and permit its complete utilization .
removal of algae from florida lakes by magnetic filtration .
magnetic filtration was used for the removal of algal populations present in five lakes located in the vicinity of gainesville , fla .
it was found that the use of this technique enabled a good removal ( 94 % ) of algal cells from three lakes where the ph was around 7 .
the other two lakes , with a higher ph , displayed a lower removal .
however , the treatment was greatly improved by lowering the ph from 9.5 to 6.5 .
factors influencing detection and enumeration of pseudomonas aeruginosa by most-probable-number and membrane filtration techniques .
most-probable-number ( mpn ) and membrane filtration ( mf ) techniques were evaluated with respect to selectivity , sensitivity , and efficiency in recovering pseudomonas aeruginosa strains in hospital fluids and extramural water environments .
known numbers of cells of a naturally occurring strain of p. aeruginosa maintained in distilled water or cells subcultured on standard methods agar were added to test samples containing various types and levels of background microbial contamiants .
environmental samples containing unknown numbers of p. aeruginosa strains also were tested .
asparagine and acetamide broths were employed as presumptive media in mpn tests , and mpa and pseudosel agars were used in mf assays .
statistical analyses of data showed the superiority and comparability of the asparagine-mpn and mpa-mf systems .
greater precision and accuracy were consistently obtained in either assay technique by the use of naturally occurring cells as test organisms .
the type of filter and nature of diluents employed , as well as ph of assay media , were found to greatly influence both recovery and developemnt of characteristic colonial morphology in the mpa-mf system .
heat resistance of ileal loop reactive bacillus cereus strains isolated from commercially canned food .
sporeformers isolated from a commercially canned food were identified as bacillus cereus , lactose-positive variants .
the thermal resistance of spore crops produced from each of two representative cultures was determined in 0.067 m phosphate buffer at ph 7.0 .
the d121.1 values for one isolate were approximately 0.03 min ( z = 9.9c ) , whereas the d121.1 values for the other isolate were 2.35 min ( z = 7.9 c ) .
thermal inactivation results for heat-stressed isolates from each strain showed no significant alteration in heat resistance from that of the two parent spore crops .
both isolates were reactive when injected into the ligated rabbit ileum .
kinetics of a bacterial culture growth : validity of the affinity rule in biological systems .
the kinetic study of a process is usually performed by measuring a convenient intensive property , p , as a function of time .
the `` affinity rule '' states that , when a given process takes place under different external constraints ( e.g. , different temperatures , pressures , ph values , etc. ) , the various p versus time curves are related by an affinity transformation parallel to the time axis : in other words the p versus log time curves are parallel and can be superimposed by translation .
the validity of the rule has been extensively tested in chemical and physiochemical processes , but there is no evidence as yet that it extends to biological systems .
the present paper shows that the rule is indeed valid for the kinetics of growth of an escherichia coli culture at various temperatures and ph values .
more extended experiments are necessary to prove or disprove the general validity of the rule in biological systems , but its practical interest is evident : whenever it is valid it will be possible , from a very small number of measurements , to predict the complete behavior of the system in a number of various external conditions
beclomethasone dipropionate aerosol in treatment of hay fever in children .
eighteen children suffering from hay fever were treated with intra-nasal beclomethasone dipropionate ( 400 mug/day ) and an identical placebo aerosol in a double-blind cross-over trial .
17 of the children preferred the intranasal beclomethasone dipropionate , one had no preference , none preferred the placebo .
the effect on the nasal symptoms was impressive .
symptom scores decreased , on average , to 12 % and the number of antihistamine tablets taken to 18 % of the pretreatment amount .
some beneficial effect on eye symptoms was also discernible , possibly due to an indirect influence from the nasal mucosa via the nasolacrimal reflex .
adrenal function was not affected .
it was concluded that 400 mug beclomethasone dipropionate given intranasally daily for some weeks is an effective and safe treatment for hay fever in children .
the influence of oxyhemoglobin affinity on tissue oxygen consumption .
in an intact animal or patient , any shift in oxyhemoglobin affinity is inevitably associated with concurrent fluctuation in numerous other determinants of oxygen delivery .
for this reason , the influence of hemoglobin affinity for oxygen on tissue oxygen consumption has been incompletely evaluated .
the purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of oxyhemoglobin affinity as the sole variable of oxygen delivery in an isolated perfused canine hindlimb .
a membrane lung system which allowed precise control of blood flow , temperature , arterial oxygen content and arterial ph was established .
twelve isolated canine hindlimbs were alternatively perfused with autologous stored ( left-shifted ) and fresh ( right-shifted ) blood in paralled perfusion systems .
the 2,3-dpg concentrations , p50 and oxygen consumptions were significantly different in the two paralled perfusion systems .
a decreased hemoglobin affinity for oxygen appeared to permit increased oxygen off-loading at the tissue level .
the relationship between muscle surface ph and oxygen transport .
the relationship between muscle surface ph ( phm ) and the arterial-venous oxygen content difference ( avo2d ) was studied in 4 patients undergoing reconstructive arterial surgery and in 6 patients undergoing acute normovolemic hemodilution .
there was a consistent inverse relation between phm in the ischemic lower extremity and the femoral avo2d before , during and after aortic clamping .
there was also an inverse relation between avo2d and phm during hemodilution .
these data confirm that phm is a reliable indicator of tissue perfusion and correlates with the avo2d .
sodium nitroprusside as a coronary vasodilator in man : a comparison of the effects of sodium nitroprusside and papaverine hydrochloride on aortocoronary saphenous vein graft flow .
blood flow in aortocoronary saphenous vein grafts was studied in response to intragraft injection of sodium nitroprusside and papaverine hydrochloride .
following injection of 50 mug of sodium nitroprusside , mean graft flow increased from 40.1 +/- 4.5 to 81.3 +/- 8.5 ml per minute .
administration of 30 mg of papaverine hydrochloride caused mean graft flow to rise from 35.4 +/- 3.9 to 70 +/- 7.9 ml per minute .
sodium nitroprusside increases aortocoronary graft flow , the doubling effect of 50 mug of the drug being of the same order of magnitude as that induced by 30 mg of papaverine hydrochloride .
comparative evaluation of a new disposable rotating membrane oxygenator with bubble oxygenator .
the comparative in vivo performance of adult-size bubble and rotating membrane oxygenators was evaluated during closed-chest cardiopulmonary bypass for six hours in two groups of dogs .
the results show that the rotating membrane oxygenator is efficient in oxygen and carbon dioxide transfer with minimal trauma to blood , while platelet destruction and hemolysis were marked with the bubble oxygenator .
cerebral , cardiac , and respiratory complications were frequent with the bubble oxygenator and absent with the membrane oxygenator .
adrenergic drug-receptor interaction in the presence of strontium ( sr++ ) in mammalian myocardium .
the specificity of ca++ for the interaction of beta adrenergic agonists with their receptors in rabbit right atrial muscle was evaluated .
this was accomplished by substituting ca++ by an equimolar concentration of sr++ .
dose-response curves which demonstrate the effect of norepinephrine and isoproterenol on the rate of electrical activity in the presence of ca++ or sr++ were made .
in addition , the antagonistic action of propranolol ( 1 x 10 ( -7 ) m ) in a ca++-containing or sr++-containing medium was determined .
the results clearly demonstrate that sr++ can effectively substitute for ca++ in maintaining electrical and mechanical activity in cardiac muscle .
also , norepinephrine and isoproterenol can increase the rate of electrical activity in a ca++ or sr++-containing medium .
this effect of these beta agonists is mediated through the beta-receptors since propranolol effectively blocked their action .
it appears that ca++ per se is not required for beta agonist or antagonist-receptor interaction in cardiac muscle .
the results are discussed in relation to the dependency on extracellular ca++ for beta agonists to cause a change in the rate of electrical activity after receptor occupancy .
effects of isoprenaline and phenylephrine on plasma potassium : role of the liver .
a dog liver preparation in situ was used .
intravenous infusion of isoprenaline caused a decrease of plasma potassium levels , which was preceded , in some of the animals infused with higher doses , by a rise in plasma potassium .
propranolol abolished both these effects of isoprenaline , whereas phentolamine was devoided of effects .
liver potassium was not affected by isoprenaline infusions .
phenylephrine caused release of potassium from the liver ; this effect was blocked by phentolamine , but not by propranolol .
combination of phenylephrine and isoprenaline induced a super-additive hyperkalemia .
analysis of these results led to the conclusion that the rise in plasma potassium due to phenylephrine might reflect a direct kalemotropic effect and an indirect hypoxemic effect .
isoprenaline seems to increase the hypoxemia caused by phenylephrine by opening the intrahepatic vascular shunts .
benzodiazepines and amphetamine on avoidance behaviour in mice .
six benzodiazepine derivatives , given alone or in combination with amphetamine , were tested in mice subjected to five 100-trial avoidance sessions in the shuttle-box .
all derivatives , execpt bromazepam , showed some facilitating effects on avoidance responding when given alone .
facilitation was particularly evident following the administration of chlordiazepoxide ( 2.5 mg/kg ) , medazepam ( 10 mg/kg ) and nitrazepam ( 0.25 , 0.5 and 1 mg/kg ) .
favourable effects were obtained by combining each benzodiazepine compound with amphetamine .
the levels of avoidance respinses were usually higher under benzodiazepine-amphetamine combinations than under benzodiazepines alone .
[ age related effects of furosemide in the rat ] .
furosemide ( 6 mg/kg i.p. ) increases the renal excretion of water , osmotic active substances , sodium and chloride in 5 to 33 day old rats more than in adults .
the dose-response-relations are the same in rats of all age groups : 6 mg/kg of furosemide i.p. are very effective , an increase in dose to 30-60 mg/kg i.p. is not followed by a significantly higher efficacy .
the increase in the renal excretion of potassium , hydrogen ions , ammonium and hydrogen carbonate by furosemide is also small in young rats .
the effect of sulfhydryl reagents on the heart rate and coronary flow of the isolated perfused guinea-pig heart .
the action of a number of compounds able to react with thiols was tested on guinea-pig hearts perfused at constant pressure .
the sh reagents used were nano2 , oxidized glutathione , cystamine , diamide , 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene , nitroglycerol , sodium nitroferricyanide and hgcl2. 6,6'-dithiodinicotinic acid , an sh reagent that does not penetrate the cell , produced no effect .
all the other sh reagents produced an increase in coronary flow .
all except oxidized glutathione and nitroglycerol increased the heart rate .
the increase in heart rate and oxygen consumption could be completely blocked by dichloroisoproterenol ; the increase in coronary flow was not affected .
difluorodinitrobenzene , diamide , cystamine and nano2 significantly decreased the acid-soluble thiol content of the heart .
for these compounds , there was a significant correlation between the decrease in coronary flow and the decrease in thiols .
we conclude that in the isolated heart , most sh reagents , if used at the appropriate concentration , will increase the heart rate , probably by relaasing catecholamines .
they will also decrease the coronary resistance , probably by a direct effect on the coronary vessels .
metabolic inhibition and adrenoceptor interconversion .
the adrenergic receptor responses of isolated strips of iris dilator muscle from rabbits were studied .
an alpha agonist , norepinephrine and a beta agonist , isoprenaline , were used to assess adrenergic sensitivity before and after pretreatment of tissues with metabolic inhibitors at 22 , 29 and 37 degrees c .
the metabolic inhibitors used were iodoacetic acid and dinitrophenol .
temperature change altered adrenoceptor sensitivity in the same manner before and after metabolic inhibition .
iodoacetic acid ( 10.4 mug/ml ) pretreatment increased both alpha and beta responses .
dinitrophenol ( 1.8 mug/ml ) pretreatment increased alpha and decreased beta responsiveness .
the results obtained indicate that some metabolic process altered by dinitrophenol may be involved in this adrenoceptor interconversion seen when temperature is changed .
this supports the theory that local environment determines the drug sensitivity ( alpha or beta ) of a single adrenergic receptor .
the influence of temperature increase , elevation of extracellular h+-concentration , and of triiodothyronine on the actions of phenylephrine , histamine , and beta-sympathomimetic drugs on rabbit aortic strips .
in the isolated preparation from the rabbit thoracic aorta , the affinities of the vasoconstrictor agents phenylephrine and histamine , as well as of the vasodilator beta-sympathomimetic drugs isoprenaline , fenoterol ( th 1165a ) , terbutaline , and salbutamol under the conditions of temperature increase , triiodothyronine and decrease of extracellular ph were investigated .
it was observed that ( 1 ) a temperature increase from 25 degrees to 42 degrees c significantly indreased the maximal tension evoked by histamine , whereas that induced by the alpha-sympathomimetic drug phenylephrine was not altered significantly ; the maximal relaxation caused by beta-sympathomimetic drugs either at 25 degrees or at 42 degrees c did not differ from one another ; ( 2 ) the affinities of histamine , phenylephrine and of the beta-sympathomimetic drugs isoprenaline , fenoterol , terbutaline , and salbutamol each were comparable at either 25 degrees or 42 degrees c ; the rank order of efficacy of the beta-sympathomimetic drugs is isoprenaline greater than fenoterol greater than salbutamol greater than terbutaline ; ( 3 ) a decrease of the ph from 7.37 to 7.15 diminished the affinities of histamine and of the beta sympathomimetic drugs whereas that of the alpha-adrenergic drug phenylephrine was not altered .
a further decrease of the ph to 6.8 diminished additionally the affinity of histamine and of isoprenaline , and especially that of the other beta-sympathomimetic drugs to such an extent that in the latter case complete dose-response curves could not be determined any more ; ( 4 ) pretreatment of the animals with 0.4 mg/kg of triiodothyronine ( t3 ) for two days , which strongly depressed the tension induced by either histamine or phenylephrine , did not alter the affinity of both drugs ; t3 in vitro ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) only diminished the affinity of histamine but left that of phenylephrine unaltered ; pretreatment for two days with 0.2 mg/kg of t3 yielded a significant diminution of the pd2-values for two beta-sympathomimetic drugs investigated , namely isoprenaline and fenoterol ; also the administration of t3 in vitro in a final concentration of 10 ( -6 ) m resulted in a diminution of the affinity of both beta-sympathomimetic drugs ; ( 5 ) the results obtained show that also on the aorta beta-adrenoceptor stimulants are dependent on the metabolic state while alpha-adrenoceptor stimulants are not .
influence of ph on the contractor effect of convulsant barbiturate on frog lung .
pentobarbial , thiopental and the convulsant 5-ethyl-5- ( 2-cyclohexylideneethyl ) barbituric acid ( cheb ) were tested for contractor effect on the isolated lung of the fullfrog at ph 7.0 ( 7 % co2 and 20 mm hco3- ) and ph 8.4 ( 0.3 % co2 and 20mm hco3- ) .
cheb was a potent contractor , thiopental a feeble contractor , and pentobarbital lacked contractor effect .
the contractor potencies of both cheb and thiopental were greater at the more acid ph .
the potencies of formally charged agonists such as acetylcholine and k+ were not altered by the ph differences employed in these experiments .
the pka of cheb was found to be 8.18 at 15 degrees c and 8.03 at 27 degrees c .
calculation of concentration-effect relationships of ionized and nonionized cheb showed that only the nonionized cheb was responsible for the contractor effect .
action of six commonly used benzodiazepines on isolated guinea-pig ileum preparation .
the spasmolytic activity of six commonly used benzodiazepines was investigated on isolated guinea-pig ileum preparation .
all six substances proved to be non-competitive antagonists of carbachol and barium chloride , the pd'2 values ranging between 3.23 and 4.37 in the presence of either agonist .
the significance of these findings is discussed .
electrical events associated with the action of nicotine at the adrenergic nerve terminal .
nicotine perfused through the coronary circulation of the isolated atropinized cat heart elicits antidromic activity in the cardiac sympathetic nerves .
the pattern of discharge varies in a complex fashion with dose .
at low concentrations , activity may last up to 10 min , whereas at high doses the antidromic response may last only a few seconds .
sympathetic transmitter is released into the perfusion fluid .
there is dissociation between the amount of transmitter that overflows from the heart and the total antidromic activity with increasing dose of nicotine .
with smaller doses of nicotine , the magnitude of the antidromic activity probably indicates the level of depolarization of the nerve terminal .
injection of greater doses of nicotine causes still greater transmitter release but not the generation of antidromic impulses , due presumably to persistent depolarization below a critical level .
during the nicotine infusion and immediately afterwards , the antidromic response to acetylcholine and the effector responses associated with the adrenergic transmitter release by acetylcholine and sympathetic nerve stimulation were blocked .
the rates of recovery of these responses were similar with a half-time of 4 to 5 min .
although the antidromic response to kcl was blocked during the nicotine infusion , it recovered more rapidly .
within 1-1.5 min , the antidromic response to kcl tended to exceed control levels .
it is proposed that nicotine causes a prolonged depolarization of the membrane of the adrenergic nerve terminal .
the site of action of nicotine , the basis of its prolonged action , and the interrelationship of this depolarization with transmitter release and intracellular uptake are discussed .
positive inotropic effect of insulin on rabbit auricle in vitro .
water soluble pig insulin ( 4 x 10 ( -8 ) to 4 x 10 ( -7 ) g/ml ) produced a marked and long-lasting increase in the contractile force of the rabbit auricle in vitro .
once the maximum effect for a given insulin concentration had been reached , addition of more insulin did not produce any further increase in inotropic effect .
insulin was without effect in reserpinized animals .
inhibition of cardiac beta-receptors by propranolol suppressed the positive inotropic effect of insulin .
these findings support the hypothesis that insulin releases catecholamines from the myocardium .
ionic basis for intracellular 14c-nicotine accumulation in slices from different rat brain areas .
the effects of ionic alterations on the accumulation , distribution and movements of 14c-nicotine in slices from rat brain striatum , hypothalamus , cortex and cerebellum were studied .
the uptake of 14c-nicotone is not dependent upon na+ present in the incubation fluid because a k+-substituted ( o-na+ ) solution increased the 14c-nicotine tissue space , a tris-substituted ( o-na+ ) solution decreased the 14c-nicotine tissue space and a sucrose-substituted ( o-na+ ) solution did not change the amount of 14c-nicotine taken up when compared to the 14c-nicotine tissue space obtained in a normal incubation solution .
however , all three na+-free solutions elicited a sustained decrease in 14c-nicotine efflux .
the increase in 14c-nicotine space produced in a k+-substituted ( o-na+ ) solution was present primarily in the slower component of a two-component washout , whereas the decrease produced in a tris-substituted ( o-na+ ) solution produced an equal percentage decrease in the size of both components .
most of the observed effects could be attributed to a linear relationship between the logarithm of the intracellular k+ concentration and the 14c-nicotine tissue space .
in conclusion , it appears that there is an intracellular binding site for nicotine and that the degree of binding is dependent upon the concentration of k+ .
mechanism of the antidiuretic effect of beta-adrenergic stimulation in man .
beta-adrenergic stimulation with isoproterenol hydrochloride in animals causes an antidiuresis similar to antidiuretic hormone .
this investigation was undertaken to determine whether isoproterenol inhibits water diuresis in man .
seven young male volunteers were studied during water diuresis in three phases : ( 1 ) water-loading , ( 2 ) water-loading plus isoproterenol , and ( 3 ) water-loading plus isoproterenol plus propranolol hydrochloride .
antidiuresis occurred 20 minutes following isoproterenol infusion ( 0.03mug to 0.06mug/kg/min ) from a mean of 19.4 to 2.0 ml/min .
we found that antidiuresis is due to the hormonal ( antidiuretic hormone ) and nonhormonal changes ( decreased glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow ) .
these in turn are due to the cardiovascular effects of the drug .
renal acidification in sickle cell trait .
nine sickle cell trait and nine control subjects underwent six-hour ammonium chloride acid loading .
maximal urine osmolality and renal hemodynamics were studied separately .
base line arterial ph , carbon dioxide pressure ( pco2 ) , and [ hco3 ] were normal and comparable in the two groups .
after ammonium chloride loading , urine ph decreased to 5.3 or less in all , and maximal excretion of ammonium and titratable and net acid was comparable as was urine minus blood pco2 after bicarbonate loading .
the ammonium chloride acidosis caused a small decrease in red blood cell 2,3-diphosphoglycerate levels but no alteration in oxygen pressure at 50 % saturation at ph 7.4 , sickling , or adverse effects .
control and sickle cell trait subjects had comparable renal hemodynamics but maximal urine osmolality was lower in sickle-cell trait subjects .
adults with sickle cell trait have diminished renal concentrating ability and normal renal acidification and hemodynamics .
therapeutic implications of gentamicin accumulation in severly diseased kidneys .
we evaluated the influence of severe disease in human kidneys ( 12 patients ) on gentamicin sulfate accumulation characteristics in such tissue and compared the results with intrarenal tissue concentration data derived from the study of healthy dogs ( 54 kidneys ) during variation in hydration and urinary ph .
our results indicate that , in the management of pyelonephritis complicating preexisting renal disease , if the minimal inhibitory gentamicin concentration for an infecting organism is greater than the usual therapeutic an nontoxic serum levels of the compound , then it may be appropriate to use alternate antibiotics that demonstrate lesser reduction in tissue drug accumulation in diseased kidneys .
[ therapy of impending premature labor and delivery ] .
[ relationships of carbohydrates/lipid metabolism and function of the fetoplacental unit during administration of th 1165a ( partusisten ) ] .
[ proceedings : effect of beta-mimetics on uteroplacental hemodynamics ] .
[ effect of labor inhibitor th 1165 a ( partusisten ) on cardiovascular parameters , blood gases and ph values of mother and fetus in animal experiments ] .
[ first results of preventive tocolytic agent administration in twin pregnancies ] .
[ cerclage successes in various indications. cerclage and tocolysis ] .
[ therapeutic aspects of chronic placental insufficiency ] .
[ acid-base status and blood picture in post-mature newborn infants ] .
[ indications for cesarean section : indication and status of the newborn infant after surgery ] .
[ is vaginal breech delivery still justified ? ] .
[ labor induction in high-risk labors using prostaglandin f2alpha with subsequent determination of oxygen consumption in the newborn infant ] .
[ enzymes in the cervix mucus ] .
the influence of ph on the growth and stability of transmissible gastroenteritis virus in vitro .
the influence of ph on the growth of transmissible gastroenteritis virus ( tgev ) in adult pig thyroid cell culture , and on the stability of the virus was studied .
at ph 7.2 and 100 fold higher than those at ph 8.0 .
the adsorption , penetration and uncoating steps of the viral replicative cycle were shown to be unaffected by ph variation .
synthesis of tgev rna during the first 12 hours post infection was found to be unaffected by ph variation between the range 6.5-8.0 .
after 12 hours breakdown of this rna appeared to occur in cultures held at ph 7.2 and 8.0 but not at ph 6.5 .
when incubated at 37 degrees c for 24 hours the virus infectivity was found to be least affected by ph 6.5 but when kept at 4 degrees c for the same length of time , the virus infectivity remained constant between ph 5.0 and ph 8.0 .
the influence of physicochemical factors on the thermal inactivation of murine interferon .
the degradation of biological activity of virus-induced murine interferon was determined in linear nonisothermal and multiple isothermal tests .
the stabilizing effect of ph during heating on interferon in solution was greatest at low ph , such that ph 2 greater than ph 5 greater than ph 7 greater than or equal to ph 9 ; freeze-dried preparations of interferon were also more heat-stable at acid ph than at neutral ph .
heat stability was a function of the h+-ion concentration rather than the ionic composition of the buffer ; interferon solutions containing monovalent cations with different ionic radii had similar heat stability .
a change in the h+ ion concentration was a critical event during the cooling of heated interferon : a shift in the direction of acidity contributed to stability whereas a shift towards alkalinity led to inactivation .
the rate of cooling of heated interferon significantly influenced its residual activity .
rapid cooling and sudden freezing decreased the residual activities of interferons at ph 2 and 9 more than `` normal '' cooling , an effect not observed at ph 7 .
interferon heated to 80degree c could not be reactivated at 40degree c or 55degree c .
interferon of higher apparent molecular weight was more heat-stable than that with lower apparent molecular weight .
it is postulated that the physicochemical alterations in the aqueous environment significantly affecting the stability of interferon operate by producing changes in the size and/or conformation of interferon molecules .
a model is proposed that relates thermal inactivation to different possible molecular states of interferon .
isoelectric focusing of herpes simplex virus .
herpes simplex virus was inserted into a preformed stable ph gradient and electrofocused for about one hour .
dextran was used as the density gradient forming agent .
virions banded at ph 4.9+/-0.1 and nucleocapsids at 4.1+/-0.05 .
about 10-20 per cent of infective virus was recovered .
effect of ph on the growth and cytopathogenicity of avian infectious bronchitis virus in chick kidney cells .
the growth of avian infectious bronchitis virus ( ibv ) in chick kidney cells at different ph values in the range 6.0-9.0 demonstrated that although the virus was released at a much faster rate at the higher ph values the titre tended to drop more quickly .
at the acid ph values the virus was released more slowly but reached a maximum titre similar to that at the higher ph values and showed only minimum reduction in infectivity up to 49 hours post inoculation .
the stability of virus in tissue culture medium was shown to be directly related to ph 6.0-8.0 , being more stable at the acid ph values .
the degree of cytopathogenicity induced in chick kidney cells following infection with ibv was directly related to the ph at which the cells were incubated , occurring earlier and more extensively in cells at the higher ph values .
cell macromolecule synthesis in chick kidney cells was inhibited following infection with ibv and was apparently due to cell damage and death .
an infrared and x-ray diffractometric study of the incorporation of fluoride into hydorxyapatite under conditions of the cyclic variation of ph .
eugenol improvement due to aging .
a laboratory appraisal .
the characteristics of eugenol for dental use appear to improve with age .
exposure to air and light causes certain chemical and physical changes , but the exact nature of the age improvement requires further elucidation .
nursing administrators ' annual conference .
effective delegation .
effect of prednisolone and salicyclic acid on ionic fluxes across the human stomach .
we compared ionic fluxes across human gastric mucosa after instillation of test solutions of isotonic hydrochloric acid alone or containing salicylic acid , or prednisolone or both .
prednisolone produced no alteration in fluxes of h+ and na+ ions compared with controls .
salicyclic acid induced a significant net loss of h+ ions and gain of na+ ions indicating alteration of the gastric mucosal barrier .
combined salicyclic acid plus prednisolone produced no increase in permeability of gastric mucosa to h+ and na+ ions or to salicylic acid itself .
prednisolone was not appreciably absorbed from the stomach while salicylic acid was well absorbed .
combination of salicylic acid and prednisolone did not increase absorption of either drug .
neither salicylic acid nor prednisolone solutions alone or combined caused an increase in pepsin output over that due to 160 mm hcl .
salicylic acid resulted in a significant fall in potential difference compared to control while prednisolone produced no change in the one subject studied .
in acute studies in man prednisolone is not absorbed from the stomach , does not itself affect the gastric mucosal barrier nor pepsin output nor does it enhance the absorption of or effect of salicylic acid on gastric ionic fluxes or pepsin output .
undescended testis : congenital or acquired ?
salazopyrin in the treatment of scleroderma .
effects of altering monoamine metabolism on the adrenocortical response to hypoxia .
anesthetized dogs , which had been prepared with lumboadrenal vein cannulae , were intravenously infused with monoamine axidase ( alphaeta ) , tryptophan hydroxylase ( pcpa ) or tyrosine hydroxylase ( alphamt ) inhibitors 30 min prior to exposure to 10 % oxygen at ground level .
these studies were designed to ascertain the role of the neurotransmitters , serotonin and norepinephrine , in the adrenocortical response to hypoxia .
in normoxic animals , alphaeta decreased basal cortisol secretion and increased systolic pressure , whereas pcpa and alphamt were essentially without afffect on these parameters .
all inhibitors prevented the rise in cortisol secretion usually observed in hypoxic dogs .
alpha eta appeared to inhibit the adrenocortical response to hypoxia as a result of its potent pressore activity , while pcpa and alphamt inhibited cortisol secretion by interfering with the synthesis of serotonin and norepinephrine , respictively .
these data suggest that substances which alter the content and/or turnover of brain monoamines abolish the hypoxic rise in cortisol secretion and thus would lower the resistance of the animal to this stressor .
calcitonin-sensitive adenylate cyclase in rat renal tubular membranes .
1. renal tubular membranes from rat kidneys were prepared , and adenylate cyclase activity was measured under basal conditions , after stimulation by naf or salmon calcitonin .
apparent km value of the enzyme for hormone-linked receptor was close to 1 x 10 ( -8 ) m .
2. the system was sensitive to temperature and ph .
ph was found to act both on affinity for salmon calcitonin-linked receptor and maximum stimulation , suggesting an effect of ph on hormone-receptor binding and on a subsequent step .
3. kcl was without effect areas whereas cocl and cacl2 above 100 mum and mncl2 above 1 mum inhibited f- -and salmon calcitonin-sensitive adenylate cyclase activities .
the ca2+ inhibition of the response reflected a fall in maximum stimulation and not a loss of affinity of salmon calcitonin-linked receptor for the enzyme .
4. the measurement of salmon calcitonin-sensitive adenylate cyclase activity as a function of atp concentration showed that the hormone increases the maximum velocity of the adenylate cyclase .
gtp , itp and xtp at 200 mum did not modify basal , salmon calcitonin- and parathyroid hormone-sensitive adenylate cyclase activities .
5. basal , salmon calcitonin- and f- -sensitive adenylate cyclase activities decreased at mg2+ concentrations below 10 mm .
high concentrations of mg2+ ( 100 mm ) led to an inhibition of the f- -stimulated enzyme .
6. salmon calcitonin-linked receptor had a greater affinity for adenylate cyclase than human or porcine calcitonin-linked receptors .
there was no additive effect of these three calcitonin peptides whereas parathyroid hormone added to salmon calcitonin increased adenylate cyclase activity , thus showing that both hormones bound to different membrane receptors .
human calcitonin fragments had no effect on adenylate cyclase activity .
7. salmon calcitonin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity decreased with the preincubation time .
this was due to progressive degradation of the hormone and not to the rate of binding to membrane receptors .
stabilization of rat liver tyrosine aminotransferase by tetracycline .
rat liver tyrosine aminotransferase was purified 200-fold and an antiserum raised against it in rabbits .
2. hepatic tyrosine aminotransferase activity was increased fourfold by tyrosine , twofold by tetracycline , 2.5-fold by cortisone 21-acetate and ninefold by a combination of tyrosine and cortisol administered intraperitoneally to rats .
3. radioimmunoassay with 14c-labelled tyrosine aminotransferase , in conjunction with rabbit antiserum against the enzyme , revealed that cortisol stimulates the synthesis of the enzyme de novo , but that tetracycline has no such effect .
4. incubation of rat liver homogenates with purified tyrosine aminotransferase in vitro leads to a rapid inactivation of the enzyme , which tetracycline partially inhibits .
5. the inactivation is brought about by intact lysosomes , and the addition of 10mm-cysteine increases the rate of enzyme inactivation , which is further markedly increased by 10mm-mg2+ and 10mm-atp .
here again tetracycline partially inhibits the decay rate , leading to the inference that the increase of tyrosine aminotransferase activity in vivo by tetracycline is brought about by the latter inhibiting the lysosomal catheptic action .
factors regulating amino acid release from extrasplanchnic tissues in the rat .
interactions of alanine and glutamine .
1. factors regulating the release of alanine and glutamine in vivo were investigated in starved rats by removing the liver from the circulation and monitoring blood metabolite changes for 30 min. 2 .
alanine and glutamine were the predominant amino acids released into the circulation in this preparation .
3. dichloroacetate , an activator of pyruvate dehydrogenase , inhibited net alanine release : it also interfered with the metabolism of the branched-chain amino acids valine , leucine and isoleucine .
4. l-cycloserine , an inhibitor of alanine aminotransferase , decreased alanine accumulation by 80 % after functional hepatectomy , whereas methionine sulphoximine , an inhibitor of glutamine synthetase , decreased glutamine accumulation by the same amount .
5. it was concluded that : ( a ) the alanine aminotransferase and the glutamine synthetase pathways respectively were responsible for 80 % of the alanine and glutamine released into the circulation by the extrasplanchnic tissues , and extrahepatic proteolysis could account for a maximum of 20 % ; ( b ) alanine formation by the peripheral tissues was dependent on availability of pyruvate and not of glutamate ; ( c ) glutamate availability could influence glutamine formation subject , possibly , to renal control .
amino acids attached to transfer ribonucleic acid in vivo .
1. trna was extracted from rabbit liver by both the phenol and diethyl pyrocarbonate methods under conditions preventing deacylation of the amino acids attached in vivo .
2. after deacylation 12 amino acids were determined by gas-liquid chromatography , by using the flame-ionization and nitrogen-sensitive thermionic detectors .
3. comparison of the distribution of 12 amino acids attached to trna with those contained in total tissue protein and in the free pool showed little correlation .
4. results for the enzymic charging assay for trna in vitro did not correlate satisfactorily with the analysis of amino acids attached to trna in vivo .
marked differences were ntoed in comparison made between our own and other published results .
initial rates of pyruvate transport in mitochondria determined by an `` inhibitor-stop '' technique .
an `` inhibitor-stop '' technique has been developed for measuring initial rates of pyruvate transport into mitochondria .
the technique uses alpha-cyano-3-hydroxycinnamate as the inhibitor and separates the mitochondria from the radioactive medium by millipore filtration .
observed rates depend on availability of hydroxyl and other exchangeable anions within the mitochondrial matrix .
a comparative study between a chondroitinase b and a chondroitinase ac from flavobacterium heparinum : isolation of a chondroitinase ac-susceptible dodecasaccharide from chondroitin sulphate b .
a chondroitinase that degrades only chondroitin sulphate b was isolated from flavobacterium heparinum , and separated from a constitutive chondroitinase ac also present in extracts of f. heparinum .
the enzyme acts only on chondroitin sulphate b , producing oligo- and tetra-saccharides , plus an unsaturated 4-sulphated disaccharide ( deltadi-4s ) .
the oligosaccharide fraction ( mol. wt. 3000 ) is susceptible to chondroitinase ac , producing mainly deltadi-4s .
the chondroitinase b is distinguished from chondroitinase ac by several properties , such as the effect of certain metal ions , temperature for optimal activity , and susceptibility to increasing salt concentrations .
the enzyme is induced in f. heparinum by all the chondroitin sulphates , as well as by the disaccharides prepared from the chondroitins .
the mechanism of induction of the enzyme and the structure of chondroitin sulphate b are discussed in relation to these results .
subtilopeptidase a isoenzyme system .
interaction with serum components and its importance for quantitative immunoelectrophoresis .
a method was developed which involved electroimmunoassay and crossed immunoelectrophoresis of subtilopeptidase a ( ec 3.4.21.14 ) .
initial trials with unfractionated antiserum were not successful and interaction of the enzyme with non-immunoglobulin serum components were shown to be the cause of the failures .
quantitative immunoelectrophoresis was possible when purified immunoglobulins were used .
a ph of 6.5 ( lower than the usual ph 8.6 ) was necessary to obtain a proper baseline definition .
subtilopeptidase a was confirmed as a multiple isoenzyme system .
qualitative inter-batch variations were detected .
di-isopropyl phosphorofluoridate inhibition altered the electrophoretic pattern , but no loss of antigenic determinants was observed .
fructose 1,6-diphosphate aldolase from rabbit muscle .
effect of ph on the rate of formation and on the equilibrium concentration of the carbanion intermediate .
the rate of oxidation of ferricyanide of the aldolase-dihydroxyacetone phosphate complex was measured under different conditions .
the following conclusions are drawn .
1. in the cleavage of fructose diphosphate , catalysed by native aldolase , the steady-state concentration of the enzyme-dihydroxyacetone phosphate carbanion intermediate represents less than 6 % of the total enzyme-substrate intermediates .
2. fructose diphosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate compete for the four catalytic sites on aldolase , the binding of fructose diphosphate being about twice as tight .
3. the equilibrium concentration of the carbanion intermediate formed by reaction of carboxypeptidase-treated aldolase with dihydroxyacetone phosphate is independent of ph between 5.0 and 9.0 .
the rates of fromation of the carbanion intermediate and of the reverse reaction are , however , concomitantly increased by increasing ph between 5.0 and 6.5 .
purification and characterization of a collagenase extracted from rabbit tumours .
a collagenase was purified from homogenates of v2 ascites-cell carcinoma growing in rabbit muscle .
( nh4 ) 2so4 precipitation , ion-exchange and gel-filtration chromatography , and affinity chromatography ( by using the cb7 cnbr ) cleavage fragment of alpha 1 ( i ) collagen linked to agarose ) gave a 268000-fold purification and a sevenfold increase in total enzyme units recovered .
the specific activity , defined as mumol of collagen in solution cleaved/h per mg of enzyme at 35 degrees c , was 1.74.2 .
the collagenase had a broad ph optimum from ph7.0 to 9.5 , and a mol.wt. of between 33000 and 35000 .
it was inhibited by dithiothreitol , l-cysteine , d-penicillamine , edta and 1,10-phenanthroline , and by both rabbit and human serum .
3. removal of cations by a chelating resin ( chelex 100 ) produced as inactive enzyme that could be reactiviated by the addition of ca2+ ions at concentrations as low as 1mum .
other bivalent cations were not effective .
4. the purified collagenase cleaved peptides alpha2 and alpha1-cb7 ( denatured polypeptides of collagen ) at 37 degrees c at one site only .
[ alpha1 ( i ) ] 2alpha2 and [ alpha1 ( iii ) ] 3 collagens in solution were cleaved at the same site approximately five times more rapidly than [ alpha1 ( ii ) ] 3 .
5. an inhibitor of the enzyme in the tumour extracts , which was dissociable from the enzyme at the ( nh4 ) 2so4 precipitation step of purification , had a mol. wt. of between 40000 and 50000 but was distinct from the alpha1 trypsin inhibitor .
6. studies with zonal density-gradient centrifugation suggested that the enzyme was bound to fibrillar substrate ( collagen ) extracellularly , but that it was not associated with enzymes originating in cell mitochondria , microsomal preparations or lysosomes .
inhibition of leucocytic lysosomal enzymes by glycosaminoglycans in vitro .
1. a lysosomal fraction was separated by density-gradient centrifugation from a highly purified human polymorphonuclear leucocyte suspension .
2. some 23 different lysosomal enzymes were assayed for activity in the presence of various concentrations of glycosaminoglycans .
3. the 21 acid hydrolases assayed were strongly inhibited to different degrees by low ( 0-12 mmol/l ) concentrations of glycosaminoglycans in a ph-dependent manner .
thus inhibitions were stronger below ph4.5 , with activity returning to control values at about ph5.0. 4 .
on a molar basis , the inhibitory activity for the several glycosaminoglycans studied was : heparin greater than chondroitin sulphate greater than hyaluronic acid .
5. once the glycosaminoglycan-acid hydrolase complex was formed , it was partially dissociated by slight elevations in the ph of the incubation medium , by increasing the ionic strength of the incubation medium , or by adding several cationic proteins ( e.g. histone , protamine ) .
6. as leucocytic lysosomes contain large amounts of chondroitin sulphate , and have a strongly acid intragranular ph , we suggest that glycosaminoglycans may modify lysosomal function through the formation of complexes with lysosomal enzymes , by inhibiting the digestive activity of the acid hydrolases when the intralysosomal ph is below their pi .
methanol poisoning .
i. the role of formic acid in the development of metabolic acidosis in the monkey and the reversal by 4-methylpyrazole .
the isolation , purification , and properties of a ribonuclease from normal human urine .
rapid determination of plasma ammonia using an ion specific electrode .
glycosyltransferases in human respiratory tissue .
alterations in subjects with hypersecretion of mucus .
induction of dt-diaphorase by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( icdd ) .
activation of wheat germ acetyl coa carboxylase by potassium and rubidium .
in vitro release of thymine from dna by neocarzinostatin .
fluroxene ( 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl vinyl ether ) mediated destruction of cytochrome p-450 in vitro .
covalent binding of trans-stilbene to rat liver microsomes .
brain enzyme levels during intraperitoneal injections of ammonium acetate .
effects of stereochemical structures of tetrahydropterins on tyrosine hydroxylase .
modifications of citrate and isocitrate metabolism in liver mitochondria of ethanol-fed rats .
[ the effects of 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine on the transport mechanisms of various neurotransmitters or their precursors at the synaptosomal level in the rat mesencephalon ] .
inhibition of hepatic mixed-function oxidase activity in vitro and in vivo by various thiono-sulfur-containing compounds .
rabbit erythrocyte membrane interaction with promazine and calcium .
[ effect of dietetic and hormonal factors on ornithine transaminase and tyrosine transaminase of the chichen liver ] .
[ on the mechanism of hypothalamic adrenergic mediation. histochemical research ] .
injuries to the mouth and teeth in an undergraduate population .
urinary d-glucaric acid excretion and serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in alcoholism .
trial of a long-acting antihistamine in the treatment of coryza .
circulating levels of prolactin in human breast cancer .
serum prolactin concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassays in 98 patients with established carcinoma of breast , 12 patients with cystic mastitis and 10 patients with gynaecomastia and compared with that of age matched normal control women .
the serum prolactin levels in the patients with breast cancer , gynaecomastia or cystic mastitis were observed to be similar to that in normal women .
it was interesting to note that the levels of prolactin in the luteal phase of the cycle were higher than that in the early follicular phase in normal women .
effect of aflatoxin b1 on pyridine nucleotides and nadp linked dehydrogenases .
the effect of a single interaperitoneal injection ( 6 mg/kg body weight ) of aflatoxin b1 in propylene glycol on pyridine nucleotides and ndp linked dehydrogenases was studied 24 h after administration of the toxin .
the liver showed a decrease in total proteins and pyridine nucleotides though levels of nadp and nadph remained unchanged .
levels of nad and nadh were decreased .
the activities of hepatic of hwprix of hepatic malate dehydrogenase ( mdh ) and isocitrate dehydrogenase ( icdh ) were not altered though icdh showed an increase when expressed on protein basis .
however , there was a significance decrease in the activity of combined hmp dehydrogenases .
adipose tissue showed increased activities of the hmp dehydrogenasess .
esterase activity of zinc neutral proteases .
the hydrolysis of a series of depsipeptides demonstrates that the zinc neutral endopeptidases of bacteria are active esterases .
esters such as bzgly-ophe-ala , bzgly-oleu-ala , and fa-gly-oleu-nh2 are hydrolyzed at rates three- to eightfold slower than are their exact peptide analogues , when hydrolyzed by thermolysin , bacillus subtilis neutral protease and the neutral protease from aeromonas proteolytica .
ester hydrolysis by zinc neutral proteases follows the characteristic preference for hydrophobic amino acids adjacent to the site of cleavage , discerned from the hydrolysis of peptide substrates .
removal of zinc from thermolysin abolishes the esterase activity of the native enzyme .
among the metals examined , only co2+ and zn2+ restore esterase activity to any significant extent , co2+ restoring 50 % and zn2+ 100 % of the native thermolysin activity .
the hydrolysis of esters and peptides by thermolysin does not differ with respect to either the binding or catalytic steps .
substrate specificity , ph-rate profiles , inhibitor , and deuterium isotope effects are identical for both types of substrates .
the binding of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide to citrate synthase of escherichia coli k12 .
citrate synthase from escherichia coli enhances the fluorescence of its allosteric inhibitor , nadh , and shifts the peak of emission of the coenzyme from 457 to 428 nm .
these effects have been used to measure the binding of nadh to this enzyme under various conditions .
the dissociation constant for the nadh-citrate synthase complex is about 0.28 mum at ph 6.2 , but increases toward alkaline ph as if binding depends on protonation of a group with a pka of about 7.05 .
over the ph range 6.2-8.7 , the number of binding sites decreases from about 0.65 to about 0.25 per citrate synthase subunit .
the midpoint of this transition is at about ph 7.7 , and it may be one reflection of the partial depolymerization of the enzyme which is known to occur in this ph range .
a gel filtration method has been used to verify that the fluorescence enhancement technique accurately reveals all of the nadh molecules bound to the enzyme in the concentration range of interest .
nad+ and nadp+ were weak competitive inhibitors of nadh binding at ph 7.8 ( ki values greater than 1 mm ) , but stronger inhibition was shown by 5'-amp and 3'-amp , with ki values of 83 +/- 5 and 65 +/- 4 mum , respectively .
acetyl-coa , one of the substrates , and kcl , an activator , also inhibit the binding in a weakly cooperative manner .
all of these effects are consistent with kinetic observations on this system .
we interpret our results in terms of two types of binding site for nucleotides on citrate synthase : an active site which binds acetyl-coa , the substrate , or its analogue 3'-amp ; and an allosteric site which binds nadh or its analogue 5'-amp and has a lesser affinity for other nicotinamide adenine dinucloetides .
when the active site is occupied , we propose that nadh can not bind to the allosteric site , but 5'-amp can ; conversely , when nadh is the in the allosteric site , the active site can not be occupied .
in addition to these two classes of sites , there must be points for interaction with kcl and other salts .
oxaloacetate , the second substrate , and alpha-ketoglutarate , an inhibitor whose mode of action is believed to be allosteric , have no effect on nadh binding to citrate synthase at ph 7.8 .
when nadh is bound to citrate synthase , it quenches the intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence of the enzyme .
the amount of quenching is proportional to the amount of nadh bound , at least up to a binding ratio of 0.50 nadh per enzyme subunit .
this amount of binding leads to the quenching of 53 +/- 5 % of the enzyme fluorescence , which means that one nadh molecule can quench all the intrinsic fluorescence of the subunit to which it binds .
the structure of the covalent adduct formed by the interaction of 3-dimethylamino-1-propyne and the flavine of mitochondrial amine oxidase .
3-dimethylamino-1-propyne irreversibly inactivates mitochondrial monoamine oxidase from bovine liver .
the inactivation results in the loss of absorption in the 450-500-nm region of the flavine spectrum and a concomitant increase in absorbance at 410 nm .
for the enzyme-bound adduct epsilon410 = 28000 .
the spectral properties of the adduct of the liver enzyme with 3-dimethylamino-1-propyne are similar to those observed when the pig kidney enzyme is inactivated with pargyline ( chuang et al. ( 1974 ) , j. biol. chem. 249 , 2381 ) .
from a proteolytic digest of the enzyme inactivated with labeled inhibitor a flavine peptide has been isolated which contains 1 mol of inactivator/mol of flavine .
the chemical and spectral properties of the adduct are those of compounds containing the structure -- n -- ch==ch -- ch==n+ less than .
it was concluded that the flavine-inhibtor adduct is a n-5 substituted dihydroflavine and its structure has been determined .
the absolute configuration of the amino acids in delta- ( alpha-aminoadipyl ) cysteinylvaline from penicillium chrysogenum .
radioactive carbon-14 l-alpha-aminoadipic acid , l-cysteine , or l-valine were readily incorporated into the intracellular tripeptide , delta- ( alpha-aminoadipyl ) cysteinylvaline ( acv ) , by washed starved cells of penicillium chrysogenum .
the labeled acv in each case was oxidized with performic acid and isolated as its corresponding sulfonic acid derivative .
after acid hydrolysis , the configuration of the component acids was determined by l- and d-amino acid oxidases , which showed the tripeptide ( acv ) from p. chrysogenum to be delta- ( l-aminoadipyl ) -l-cysteinyl-d-valine .
chromatin-bound protease : degradation of chromosomal proteins under chromatin dissociation conditions .
a chromatin-bound protease , active in 2 m nacl-5 m urea or 5 m urea alone , was demonstrated in rat liver , kidney , testes , brain , rabbit bone marrow , chicken reticulocyte , and ehrlich ascites chromatin .
chicken erythrocyte chromatin did not possess any detectable proteolytic activity in salt and urea .
the proteolytic activity of rat liver chromatin in salt and urea was found to be independent of the methods of chromatin preparation .
the protease can be inhibited by the serine specific reagents phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride and diisopropyl fluorophosphate and the alkylating reagent , carbobenzoxyphenylalanine chloromethyl ketone , in the presence of organic solvents at 1 mm concentration .
the inhibitions of chromatin-bound protease in rat liver by these compounds are irreversible .
on the other hand , carbobenzoxyphenylalanine and p-nitrophenyl acetate were shown to be reversible inhibitors of rat liver chromatin-bound protease .
the application of these inhibitors during the dissociation of chromatin by salt and urea may be useful to researchers interested in purifying various chromosomal proteins or to those researchers doing reconstitution studies with labile chromatins .
atpase of escherichia coli : purification , dissociation , and reconstitution of the active complex from the isolated subunits .
a simple procedure for the purification of mg2+-stimulated atpase of escherichia coli by fractionation with poly ( ethylene glycols ) and gel filtration is described .
the enzyme restores atpase-linked reactions to membrane preparations lacking these activities .
five different polypeptides ( alpha , beta , gamma , delta , epsilon ) are observed in sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis .
freezing in salt solutions splits the enzyme complex into subunits which do not possess any catalytic activity .
the presence of different subunits is confirmed by electrophoretic and immunological methods .
the active enzyme complex can be reconstituted by decreasing the ionic strength in the dissociated sample .
temperature , ph , protein concentration , and the presence of substrate are each important determinants of the rate and extent of reconstitution .
the dissociated enzyme has been separated by ion-exchange chromatography into two major fragments .
fragment ia has a molecular weight of about 100000 and contains the alpha , gamma , and epsilon polypeptides .
the minor fragment , ib , has about the same molecular weight but contains , besides alpha , gamma , and epsilon , the delta polypeptide .
fragment ii , with a molecular weight of about 52000 , appears to be identical with the beta polypeptide .
atpase activity can be reconstituted from fragments ia and ii , whereas the capacity of the atpase to drive energy-dependent processes in depleted membrane vesicles is only restored after incubation of these two fractions with fraction ib , which contains the delta subunit .
conformation of gonadotropin releasing hormone .
the conformation of the gonadotropin releasing hormone ( gn-rh ) , whose primary sequence is pglu-his-trp-ser-tyr-gly-leu-arg-pro-glynh2 , and of several of its structural analogues has been studied by circular dichroism , optical rotatory dispersion , and fluorescence spectroscopy .
the effects of ph , guanidine , and temperature on fluorescence emission have also been examined .
titration data demonstrate that the histidine and tyrosine residues are free of any mutual interactions .
the similarity of emission spectra in water and in guanidine hydrochloride solutions precludes significant interactions between the fluorescent groups and other residues .
neither the temperature nor the ph profiles of the emission intensities of either tyrosine or tryptophan reveal any fixed secondary structure in gn-rh .
both the extent of alkaline quenching and the distance of 10-11 a calculated from forster energy transfer theory are in accord with a randomly coiled structure with only one residue between tyrosine and tryptophan .
furthermore , the circular dichroism spectrum and optical rotatory dispersion do not exhibit any contributions from peptide bonds in an ordered structure , although there is a perturbation of the peptide absorption region due to overlapping bands from side-chain chromophores .
gn-rh , therefore , appears to behave as a random coil polypeptide in water devoid of any intrachain residue interactions .
this nonordered structure in gn-rh and the lack of any significant differences in the physical-chemical properties of the hormone analogues indicate that a predetermined solution conformation is not required for biological activity .
in contrast to its behavior in water , gn-rh in trifluoroethanol exhibits a conformational transition , with the formation of a beta structure .
differences in conformational changes exhibited by several analogues in trifluoroethanol may be relevant to their relative biological activities at the receptor site .
the thermodynamics of the self-association of the reduced and carboxymethylated form of apo-a-ii from the human high density lipoprotein complex .
low and high ph form of cadmium carbonic anhydrase determined by nuclear quadrupole interaction .
the ph dependence of the nuclear quadrupole interaction between the excited 247-kev state in 111cd bound to the active site in human carbonic anhydrase b and the nearest protein surroundings has been studied by means of the nuclear spectroscopic technique of perturbed angular correlation of gamma rays .
the enzyme has been studied in the ph region 5.6-11.0 at 22 and -196 degrees c .
the results show that the cd enzyme changes from one form at low ph to another form at high ph both at 22 and -196 degrees c .
the pk of the transition is 8.9 +/- 0.2 at -196 degrees c and close to 9 at 22 degrees c .
parallel to this transformation , the esterase activity of the cd enzyme for the hydration of p-nitrophenyl acetate exhibits a ph dependency with a ph of 9.1 +/- 0.2 .
the sulfonamide inhibitor acetazolamide completely inhibits this activity of the cd enzyme .
the quadrupole interaction parameters for the cd enzyme are not significantly different at -196 degrees c from those obtained at 22 degrees c .
a measurement at 0 degrees c ph 5.7 shows , however , a form different from those at 22 degrees c ph 5.6 and -196 degrees c ph 5.7 .
the change in the quadrupole interaction with ph is , in a simple model , consistent with an ionization of a metal-bound water molecule .
oxidation-reduction properties of chromatium vinosum high potential iron-sulfur protein .
the oxidation-reduction properties of the high potential iron-sulfur protein ( hipip ) from chromatium vinosum have been investigated .
both equilibrium and kinetic measurements demonstrate electron transport by hipip is ph independent in the ph range 7-11 .
the kinetics of reduction ( potassium ferrocyanide , so2 , s2o42- , sodium ascorbate , and rhodospirillum rubrum cytochrome c2 ) and oxidation ( potassium ferricyanide and rhodospirillium rubrum cytochrome c2 ) of hipip are reported .
based on the data obtained with different reactants and the influence of ionic strength , ph , and temperature on the kinetics of oxidation and reduction , a number of conclusions can be drawn .
( 1 ) hipip undergoes rapid outer-sphere electron transfer with no evidence of kinetic complexity and no indication of complex formation with various reactants .
( 2 ) the site of oxidation of reduced hipip has an apparent negative charge while the site of reduction of oxidized hipip is uncharged .
( 3 ) hipip appears to interact with a physiological reactant ( r. rubrum cytochrome c2 ) at the same site as nonphysiological oxidants or reductants suggesting single minimum energy pathways for the oxidation and reduction processes .
( 4 ) based on a comparison of the rates of oxidation and reduction with different reactants , it appears that steric restrictions and differences in oxidation-reduction potential are less important than electrostatic attraction and/or repulsion in determining the absolute rate constants .
( 5 ) the thermodynamic activation parameters indicate that both oxidation and reduction by the iron hexacyanides are driven entropically with the enthalpic terms making no contribution to hipip oxidation and a small contribution to hipip reduction .
based on the data reported here and available structural and physical-chemical information , possible mechanisms of the oxidation and reduction of hipip are discussed and their relative merits analyzed .
the more likely mechanisms include electron transfer via a tyrosine residue , electron transfer through a nonaqueous media to the iron-sulfur chromophore , and direct interaction between the iron-sulfur chromophore and the different oxidants and reductants .
isolation , chemical , and physical properties of alpha-1-antitrypsin .
a method of isolation of alpha-1-antitrypsin ( alpha-1-at ) in good yield from normal human plasma is described .
a key step was affinity chromatography employing an antiserum which had been depleted of alpha-1-at antibodies .
the final preparations were homogeneous by immunological and physicochemical criteria .
the specific activity of the purified alpha-1-at was 0.363 mg of active bovine trypsin inhibited per 1.0 mg of inhibitor .
polyacrylamide gel patterns at both alkaline and acid ph of highly pure preparations frequently , but not invariably , showed multiple hands .
molecular weight studies by sedimentation equilibrium ultracentrifugation in aqueous buffer and in 6 m guanidine as well as sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis suggest that alpha-1-at is a single polypeptide chain having a molecular weight of 49,500 .
other physical and chemical properties of the inhibitor are described .
a limited n-terminal sequence ( glu-asp-pro-gln-gly-asx-ala-ala ) was obtained .
it was found that alpha-1-at easily forms polymers and higher aggregates when exposed to denaturing agents such as 8 m urea and 6 m guanidine .
the results suggest that aggregation is determined by both covalent and noncovalent forces .
